Good writing is important skill for young people, as it is a predictor of academic success, for successful career and a basic requirement for participation in civic life. (Murray 2004). Most contexts of life (school, the workplace, and the community) call for some level of writing skill, and each context makes overlapping, but not identical, demands. Proficient writers can adapt their writing flexibly to the context in which it takes place. That is why all students need to become proficient and flexible writers.

Finding a good topic is one of the hardest parts of learning to write. And, unfortunately, every writer runs into it right at the beginning. That’s why it is necessary to know strategies that will always give many good topics to choose from. In all subject areas, a student needs to develop skills for getting what they know about a topic down on paper, and generating ideas or finding additional facts. He also needs skills to check whether their writing is on-topic and fulfills its purpose. Further, they need to be able to explain the writing assignment and the process they are following to effectively complete the assignment.

To write a good essay a student needs to know how to organize what they have learned about any topic or assignment into a well-structured whole. In longer writing assignments, he needs to know how to create a strong, focused introduction that catches the reader’s interest; how to link ideas in logically connected paragraphs that contain enough supporting detail; and how to conclude with a strong ending.

It is difficult to start writing an essay, for example, without a central idea and notes to support it. Often, the more detailed an outline, the easier is the writing. People frequently find that they can finish faster by writing a first draft quickly and then editing and revising this draft.

In my opinion students learn to write by writing, so they need regular opportunities at school and colleges to write in all subjects. A consistent approach to the writing process in all subject areas and explicit instruction on the writing process by the subject teacher help students become better writers. Models of good writing in the subject area, and feedback that is constructive and formative, are critical to students’ growth as writers.