Advertising no doubt is a broad topic (lyer, Soberman, and Villas-Boas, 2005) it is one of the most important decisions that marketers make. Burd (1959) Advertising is one of the most proficient and the most economical aid in the distribution and marketing of merchandise or service. Advertising is either in written or oral form, which intends to sell something and want to earn revenue. Jayasinghi & Ritson (2008) Advertising includes all major communication mediums which include: television, newspapers, radio, magazines, the Internet, movies, and billboards through which that message is transmitted. Television is the most common medium as it covers large but at the same time it is very costly. Advertising is generally aimed at consumer reminiscence who is being engaged with certain type of ads where the purpose of marketers is to create awareness and Brand/ Product recall and recognition later in consumer minds. Sometimes when you look at advertisement you will easily recall it may be it is in your subconscious mind or because of the celebrity or the background music that appeals you and sometimes you won’t be able to recall what you have seen just few minutes ago (Obermiller, Spangenberg, 2005; MacLauchlan, 2005.). An advertising objective may be to change the mind-set of the customers. Advertising has a great role when a business that has a bad reputation and has lost his/her customers can use advertising to get them back (Burd,1959). Pechpeyrou & Odou (2012) hence, Advertising plays a central role in not only providing information about the product or service but also creating awareness and recognition of the product/service in consumer mind.

It is a type of advertising that targeted at end consumers. All the offering and services are for the end consumers. Consumer advertising includes common commodities and what we usually find around us is all what comes under consumer advertising. The major aim of consumer advertising is to create awareness of brands and products that are of consumer use. In such sort of advertising emotional and rational appeal plays a vital role.

Trade advertising is also known as business/ professional advertising. This type of advertisement is not for consumers but for all those who influence the consumer like distributors, resellers or businesses. Medium for such sort of advertising is professional magazines and direct mail which do not involve end consumers.

