Adolf Hitler was a cruel and uncompassionate human being. Hitler had killed as many as 6 million Jew’s during his whole rule. Hitler would make the Jews miserable any way he possibly could. An example is taking them away for their homes and businesses.

During the 1920’s, Hitler’s party grew significantly. On the night of November 8, the Nazi used a patriotic rally in a Munich beer hall to launch an attempt. The Nazis used a right-facing swastika as their symbol and the red and black colors were to represent blood and soil. The army was the last are of the German state to success the Nazi party. It wasn’t until the year 1944 that a group of officers opposed to the Nazi regime for an attempt to over throws Hitler. By 1945, the Nazi party, and Nazi state were inseparable. Their most fanatical member killed themselves, fled Germany or was arrested.

The Nazi party and Hitler almost destroyed enter culture of people know as the Jewish community. Hitler started by boycotted in Jewish owned shops. Little by little Hitler took away their rights. For an example Hitler started to give the Jewish community a curfew and if they would be seen out past curfew they would be killed or sent to jail. Then Hitler demanded that the Jews would wear golden starts or little hats called yamakas to be identified if they were Jewish or not. Later that gold star was known as the Star of David. Hitler would separate the Jews from the other citizens by sending their children to other school only for Jews. Hitler started to kick the Jews out of their homes and sending them to concentration camps where they would be put in the gas chamber, cremated, or be shot by a firing squad.

Many of the staff from the Nazi concentration camps were arrested and tried for murder and acts of brutality against their prisoners after the War. 3,600 women worked in the concentration camps and around 60 stood trial for before War Crimes Tribunals between 1945 and 1949, of these 21 were executed. In total, 5,025 men and women were convicted of war crimes in the American, British and French zones and over 500 of those were sentenced to death with the majority executed. It was decided that those sentenced to die should suffer death by hanging for both sexes, although no standard execution protocol was agreed. Each country carried out executions according to its normal procedure. This led to use of British style measured drop hanging in private, for those executed in the British sector, short drop hanging in public or private for those in Polish and Russian sectors and standard drop hanging in semi-private for those executed by the Americans at Nuremberg, Dacha, and Landsbergis. Some of the American hangings were televised and shown on the news. No women were executed in the US sector.