In contemporary society, there is a very popular theory stating that the universities are supposed to attach equal importance to the sports and social activities and put equal finance as that they have invested in classes and libraries. This point of view has triggered public concerns and the debate over whether it makes sense or not has been heating up. At the sight of the view, I thought twice about it and now I may rest assured that I vote for it to the fullest extent on account of the important role sports or social activities play in the formation of the mental world and view of value of the students, the solid foundation they will lay for the development students after they step into society and the need for fostering an omnipotent graduate. Followed I will be listing the reasons in support of my arguments.

To begin with, it is undeniable that sports and social activities are extremely conducive to the civilization of the spirit of teamwork, improvement of a student’s mental world and establishment of the correct view of value. Having written down these, I can recall my mind a very good example that matches my argument very well. When I was in my college, I used to stay focused on my study at the beginning and was ignorant of the importance of dealing with others. I did my best to avoid any sports meeting or social activities that could provide me with an opportunity to rub my shoulders with others. By degrees, I became more and more isolated and unwilling to talk with others. Then I came to realize I had made a huge mistake and I would ruin myself if that status continued. I began to do sports and participate in some social activities held by my department, during the process of which, I knew a large number of new friends,learned how to manage something by cooperating with others and realized the importance of teamwork. Thanks to that, I did not become an aloof person.

Secondly, there is no doubt that as a university student, a lack of experience especially that related to society is an unavoidable problem to be addressed. That may get the student exposed to the possibility of offending others due to being not sophisticated. Sports lessons or activities theming society may be the best way to solve that. Through the activities, the students can learn a lot about how to deal and work with others. The experience gained from that can be used for the job after graduating from university. To illustrate my point, I intend to cite Mike, my best friend, as an example. Mike became accustomed to his new role as a new staff after being employed once graduating faster than other graduates and he was accepted by every colleague in the company. When asked the reason, he always attributes the reason to the participation of some social activities and the university’s investment into the activities.

In addition, a student should study well and score high in preparation for hunting for an ideal job but more importantly, omnipotence accounts for a more proportion in that. In other words, high marks do not guarantee a good job. With social ability and sports added, the possibility surges up. Omnipotence matters a lot. How to achieve that? University should support the social activity or sports and then encourage the students to take part in. For instance, a recent survey conducted by PHD. Jia Hui from Southwest University of China reveals that the graduates of the universities which plunge investment into social activities find it much easier to get a good job than those which do not.

Based on what has been discussed above, wemay come to a safe conclusion that universities should put equal financial emphasis on sports and social activities to the traditional lessons or libraries. Although some people may take hold of a point of view that spending money on sports or social activities does not make sense, I still need to stress that so many merits are worth any financial support. Universities, it is time for them to take actions to support the activities and make the university life more colorful!
