As Hellen Keller said, “Alone we can do so little, together we can do much
more.” Maintaining a clean living environment is every family member’s
responsibility. For students, cleaning up our own room is a must-do when it comes to
chores. We should avoid letting our parents make the bed for us or putting our smelly
clothes into the laundry basket. We can also start from simple tasks like washing the
clothes, do the dishes and mopping the floor. The lady in the family may become a
great help when cleaning the kitchen. Mothers often prepare tasty dishes for us so she
is the person who knows the kitchen better than anyone in the family. Father should
clean up the living room and the bathroom. Since it requires time and a lot of energy.
Grandparents can be in charge of the balcony. It’s a less tiring job and the fresh air
and fragrance of the flowers may benefit their health.
I am the only child in my family, so it takes more efforts to clean up the entire
house with only three people in my family. On holidays, I usually tidy up the house
with my parents. At first, I was reluctant to do my chores, but as I grew up, it became
a great habit for me. I am responsible for my own room. Cleaning up the “Reading
Room” is also my task. I have to put all the books back to where they belong, clean
the dust on the shelves and finally polish my dad’s desk. Watering the plants is also
my job, since I am alergic to dust, getting near the plants is refreshing to me. Mom
spend her time mostly in the kitchen throughout the week, so she wants to try
something new for a change. She likes cleaning up the living room where she displays
all of her precious collection of china teacups. While doing her work, she turns on the
volume and plays some light music. She believes that the beat and the rhthem of the
music turns her on and make her more efficient. Dad cleans the spots that are difficult
to reach in the kitchen and the bathroom. I love working with the people I love. All of
us are doing something meaningful for the place we live in, and just thinking of that
makes my heart race. Doing chores definitely bonds me and my family closer. The
love of family is sweet and it’s also very unique. The love of family is ours to have.
The hear-warming feeling will forever last. You will start feeling it when you
maintain a clean living environment with your family!