When it comes to doing household chores, I think that everyone in the house
should be responsible for them. On the grounds that all family members live in the
same space and enjoy the environment together, no one can escape from doing
household chores. In addition, the chores should be well-divided in case one person
does too much work and in turn runs out of steam, while others relaxing themselves to
the fullest. Most important of all, the chores should be assigned to the right person,
that is to say, the distribution of the chores should consider a person’s ability, so that
everyone in the house can make good use of their competence. With everyone
realizing the importance of their responsibility and also keeping an eye on each
other’s work, one can enjoy a clean and tidy environment in the sweet home.
Take our family for example, we divide our work properly based on everyone’s
capability. My father washes windows, wipes the tops of shelves and lights seeing that
he is the tallest in our family. My mom does the laundry and cleans the bathroom in
that she said that she has been doing these chores since she was in her childhood and
has been good at tem since young. My sister always insists on sweeping floor and
mopping floors because she is always willing to “slip” between rooms. Speaking of
my work, I wash the dishes, wipes tables and plant flowers. The latter is my favorite
seeing that planting flowers can allow me to enjoy the good smell and learn how to
take care of things. Once, our family did household chores on a Sunday morning. In
spite of the fact that it was tired, after we all finished, we sat in front of the TV and
had a nice afternoon. It wasn’t until then that I came to realize how nice it was with
everyone going to great lengths to finish their work. And it occurred to me that I
should behave well instead of throwing things whenever I want or making rooms
messy because it would make the other tired. It’s my belief that as long as we all do
our best to do our parts, we can create a wonderful sweet home.