The house is a place we live and rest, and maintaining its cleanness is the
responsibility of every member within the family. However, due to the long-lasting
stereotype, men were more prone to get employed to support the family while women
were forced to stay at home, taking up the job of doing house chores. As the
technologies improved and woman rights were increasingly valued, more women
devote themselves to the workforce. Thus, the problem of house-chore responsibility
emerged and became the heated question discussed frequently in the public. In my
opinion, men and women are equal. When it comes to house chores, they should both
take up the same amount of work if both of them are working to feed the family. If
only one of the two is employed, the person not having a job should take up more
responsibilities.
The situation of my family is the latter, that is, my father is employed and my
mother isn’t. My dad is a business executive that travels really often, and spends little
time staying at home. My mother is a housewife that take care of my brother, me, and
the whole family. To be honest, the job distribution of our family isn’t quite fair;
however, we all do our best to improve the circumstance. Because my brother and I
have to go to school which lasts from 7 in the morning to 5 in the afternoon, most
house chores are finished by my mother, who spends most of her time at home. After
coming back from school, I will cook with my mother and my brother will do the
dishes afterwards. At times when my father comes home, he will also help do house
chores to ease my mother’s burden. Most people my hate doing house chores with the
perception of tireness and boredness. Nevertheless, I enjoy doing it not only because
it is my responsibility but also because it is one of the best time during my day. At the
moment of cooking with my mother, I am able to discard all the fatigue and pressure
generated throughout the day and purely chat with my mother. I will share some
intriguing stories happened that day while my mom will tell me some funny news she
heard from the neighbors. Through the experience of doing house chores, I have
realized that the most valuable thing is the intimate relationship formed during the
process of interacting. I really enjoy the experience and I hope to help doing more
house chores in the future.