On the basis of what I have heard from the listening material and read from the passage, I have a clear idea that the professor in her lecture is mainly discussing the negative effects posed by working four days a week on a company in terms of the extra investment a company has to put into some equipment and the human resource cost, the harm to other employees and the reduce of the possibility to get promoted. That strongly challenges the points of views held by the narrator and thinks of them as unconvincing. Followed are the three aspects where the two materials diverge from each other.

In the first place, the speaker says in a statement in her lecture that a four-day week will impose miscellaneous costs on a company and as a result, the company will not be able to profit from the operation. She cites some expenses as an example to illustrate her point. A company has no alternative but to spend more money in training and benefits for the new staff it has hired for the four-day week job and what’s worse is that more office space will be taken up and more computers will be purchased. On the contrary, the passage believes that a company can benefit from this model of work since the staff will have a good rest and become vigilant about some huge mistakes.

Second of all, it is argued by the professor in the listening material that the rise in the cost puts hiring new staff working four days a week out of the question, which enhances the unemployment rate instead of reducing it. Meanwhile, the work that cannot be accomplished by those staff who only work four days a week will have to be handed out to the full-time employees. There is no doubt that the latter will put themselves under the obligation to work overtime over and over again so that they can make up for the unfinished part of the work. That hurts others morale and activity in the end. In contrast, the narrator suggests that with the help of the employees working four days a week, the burden of the full-time staff can be relieved.

Furthermore, the professor expresses that the four-day workweek will not only block the way that the people’s life quality gets improved but also prevent them from getting promoted. As is often the case, an employer has a preference for considering the people who work five days a week when it comes to promotion rather than the four-day workmen. As a result, the negative impression left on the boss makes it impossible for them to outweigh others not to mention to boost the quality of their lives. On the other hand, it is held that the extra time squeezed by working four days can be spent together with family members so that the quality of life is improved.

In summary, the writer’s points of views are jeopardized by the speaker while the professor is completely opposed of what is supported by the narrator. Both fail to agree on this issue.
