Many of my friends think that lining up is a complete waste of time. The main reason is that they are mostly strong-minded, independent people who tend to go against the flow of popular opinion. When they see everybody lining up for the newest trend, their first instinct is to reject it based solely on the fact that everybody is “hopping on the bandwagon”. They understand the nature of trends in that they are temporary and passing. So, on the rare occasion that a new thing or experience is genuinely interesting to them, they prefer to choose alternatives, or even to wait patiently until the craze has died down. I agree with this logic, but I still find myself waiting in line sometimes. For  example, when the band Coldplay came to Taiwan or Mayday performed in Taoyuan, I had to wait in line to buy the tickets and get into the concerts, because I am a passionate fan of these two bands and consider them to be the best in the rock music scene. So, by participating in the anticipation and procurement of something that I truly value, I actually developed a sense of camaraderie with others who were waiting in line with me.
Personally, I am an independent thinker, but unlike my friends, I am not predisposed to reject popular trends. Sometimes the newest, hottest thing can be revolutionary, and in keeping up with humanity’s advancements, it feels paramount that I experience it with everybody else who is crazy about the phenomenon. There is excitement and a sense of fulfillment to be had through the experience. Many people do not take this into account when they dismiss the practice of lining up. It doesn’t have to be considered an unpleasant experience, since many participants actually enjoy the act itself as a buildup to the climax. In this sense, I don’t judge anybody for "hopping on the bandwagon," because what is enjoyable or not is actually a matter of opinion. As long as you consider carefully whether or not something is worth the wait, who can tell you that you are wasting your time? 