  According to the high unemployment ratio, it becomes harder and harder to acquire a desirable job. There are various factors to account for this problem, such as unstable economic markets, salaries. People nowadays tend to believe companies should hire their employees for their entire lives. When it comes to this, another question arises: does this policy really eliminate the current question they are facing? I'm afraid not. This new hire policy could just bring more problems than now.  

 

  It really sounds great that employees could have a job for their entire lives, but their attitudes toward jobs may drive their boss crazy. With higher job security, employee never worry about losing jobs, nor will they work hard as before, even they could not get the salaries as much as before. In the long run, they become less competitive and begin to spend more time on recreation. What's more, personal promotion has no relation with employees' performance in some places, such as public service and governmental departments. And this will definitely make workers be negative to jobs.  

 

  Due to that consequence, companies have also been victims. When their employees do not work hard, it could be disaster to them. As we all know, people's living standards have been promoted a lot and they become so picky that companies have to be more efficient and more outstanding to survive in the unprecedentedly competitive environment. Nokia, which used to be one of the largest cell phone companies in the world, now is experiencing its crisis because people prefer smarter and cuter cell phones, such as iPhone. In this case, the question comes to the employees again, how could companies get the difficulties over?   

 

  What's more, the whole society could not get rid of negative effects under that situation. For example, in China, there are many big companies which government holds numbers of stocks of. When they are going to bankrupt, government is supposed to invest more money which should be spent on education or welfare to them. And if they get no extra money, a number of people will lose their jobs, which produces much more pressure on social security and stability.   

 

  In conclusion, people may get seemly higher security jobs, but actually they do not. Hiring for entire life could just ease the employment pressure in some certain period. After that, the outcome is unpredictable. However, if human source department focus on the avenues of enhancing supervising, managing and stimulating policies, this new hire system may work well.