Teacher has been a profession for ages since the existence of human being. As early as Greek time, we have  prominent teachers as Aristotle and Plato, while in ancient China, teachers such as Confucius and Mencius. It is teacher that is playing an unceasingly positive impact on the evolution and development of human society. They not only  instruct us specific knowledge, which enriches our minds and broadens our horizon, but also teach us philosophy of life, leading us to self-confidence, self-worth and self-realization. Then one problem emerges as we delve into the function of teacher: which is a more important task of teachers, helping students gain self-confidence or teaching them specific knowledge? From my perspective, teacher does both, and there is no absolute judgment of which one is more important. Only those that can do both well are eligible for qualified teachers.      

  It is undeniable that teachers' top priority is to impart knowledge to students. That is, as a matter of fact, how we define teachers: the person who imparts certain knowledge to others. Take history teacher as an example. Some history teachers are able to make their classes as lively as possible by illustrating their points through interesting  historic events and stories. Through this way, they not only attain the purpose of knowledge impartment but also make students love their classes, in turn, love history. On the contrary, other history teachers are simply teaching knowledge for its own sake, without further elaboration of classes. We rarely call this kind of teachers "good teacher". Therefore, due to the nature of teachers, it is undeniably significant for teachers to impart knowledge to students. 
  On the other hand, equally important is teachers' awareness and ability to help students gain self-confidence. This, to a certain extent, is the broad definition of teacher. With the increasing pace and complexity of modern society, the twentieth-first century is calling for multiple talents, talents who are not only physically and academically capable, but also psychologically capable. Outstanding students with weak psychological state or lack of confidence are surely not the employers wanted. Therefore, people have attained a common consensus as time passes by that students' mentality is of equal importance with the academic knowledge they acquire. Therefore, it is this background that calls for teachers to gain the ability to help students gain self-confidence. Only when students are confident enough about themselves can they have the healthy mentality to perform tasks.      

  Therefore, it is reasonable to maintain that for a teacher, in the present society, helping students to gain self-confidence and teaching them specific knowledge are of equal importance. It is highly possible that as time elapses, teachers will take on more roles besides the two. However, at present, these two core functions of teachers should be attached of high priority if one wants to become a teacher or if one is judging a teacher. Absence of either one can legitimately take off the crown of the seemingly "good teacher".