As knowledge and experience serve as twin towers in problem-solving, one is often presented with two major paths that pave the way for finial fulfillment, either to rack his brain, just like what happened to Newton, sitting for many years under an apple tree and eventually figuring out of the greatest universal rules that govern the whole globe, or to seek for other’s wisdom through their advice, just as in the case of Benjamin Franklin, gathering great minds under one roof and then establishing a most world-renown library. Both way work. When a practical goal is involved, however, Benjamin Franklin may best be regarded as a role model in this respect and asking people for advice often turn out of be the prime alternative.

 

  Experience and knowledge borrowed or learned from other’s advice contribute greatly to effectiveness and efficiency for a goal-accomplishment. Not all experience and knowledge related to problem-solving can be obtained by personal effort alone due to limitations of mind and capabilities of each individual. A single thought in someone’s mind is , more often than not, far less shining compared with group’s wisdom. That explains the famous old saying that one sees further when standing upon the shoulders’ of pass great giants; that explains why a great leader is always with greater minds; that also explains why teamwork in corporation is highly emphasized in the 21 century. Brainstorm and exchange of ideas between different thoughts never fail to enhance capabilities of each individual involved, a team, a company, an institution, a country, pr even the entire global village.

 

  Asking others’ advice instead of getting everything done on one’s own promotes democracy and communication too. In terms of democracy, it is necessary to give others rights and chances to speak since the problem may concern them in different ways, and their saying in turn reflects our respect toward freedom of speech as well as their wisdom. In terms of communication, idea exchange sometimes focuses more than solutions, and hereby better mutual understanding about perspectives, principles, practicality and personalities of each other. 

 

  Admittedly turning to others for help and suggestion by no means refers to absolute and irresponsible dependence. Consideration upon different thoughts and ideas broadens our mind, enlarges our vision, furthers understanding, enhances more effective and efficient brainstorm, and stresses mutual respect in groups and communities, which undoubtedly gives rise to better, if not the best solutions. As is paraphrased from John F. Kenedy, brainstormed, there is little we cannot do while divided, there is little we can do. 