People live in the present. They plan for and worry about the future. History, however, is the study of the past.

Some people might ask, "Given all the demands that press in from living in the present and anticipating what is yet　to come, why bother with what has been? Given all the desirable and available branches of knowledge, why　insist—as most American educational programs do—on a good bit of history? And why urge many students to　study even more history than they are required to?" However, it's undeniable that learning about past has its value, it　will help us understand people and societies, and it will help us understand change and how the society we live in　came to be.

History helps us understand people and societies. In the first place, history offers a storehouse of information　about how people and societies behave. Understanding the operations of people and societies is difficult, though a　number of disciplines make the attempt. An exclusive reliance on current data would needlessly handicap our　efforts. For example, how can we evaluate war if the nation is at peace—unless we use historical materials? How　can we understand genius, the influence of technological innovation, or the role that beliefs play in shaping family　life, if we don't use what we know about experiences in the past? Consequently, history must serve, however　imperfectly, as our laboratory, and data from the past must serve as our most vital evidence in the unavoidable quest to　figure out why our complex species behaves as it does in societal settings. This, fundamentally, is why we cannot stay　away from history: it offers the only extensive evidential base for the contemplation and analysis of how societies　function, and people need to have some sense of how societies function simply to run their own lives.

History also helps us understand change and how the society we live in came to be. The second reason history　is inescapable as a subject of serious study follows closely on the first. The past causes the present, and so the　future. Any time we try to know why something happened—whether a shift in political party dominance in the　American Congress, a major change in the teenage suicide rate, or a war in the Balkans or the Middle East—we have　to look for factors that took shape earlier. Sometimes fairly recent history will suffice to explain a major　development, but often we need to look further back to identify the causes of change. Only through studying history　can we grasp how things change; only through history can we begin to comprehend the factors that cause change; and　only through history can we understand what elements of an institution or a society persist despite change.