In my memory, there were few activities my family participated in together so
that I could still hold vivid impression of those experiences in my brain although they
all happened long time ago. Among those events, the one that shocked and influenced
me most must be the trip we went on when I was ten years old.
It was an ordinary sunny day, with the sunshine sprinkling on the earth and the
breeze blowing gently on my face. Feeling zesty and exhilarating, I urged Mom and
Dad to speed up the procedure of packing and immediately hit on the road.
Nevertheless, out of our expectation, the highway was fraught with vehicles, and we
had no alternative but to be stuck in the traffic jam. The time for waiting seemed to
last for a century and made our facility turn into the vapid feeling. After going
through almost the biggest blank space in my life, we finally got rid of the crowded
traffic and made our way to our destination—the amusement park.
The amusement park had always been my favorite because of its atmosphere
which gave tourists enormous vitality and joyfulness. But my fantasy and beautiful
depiction of amusement parks dramatically collapsed upon seeing the endless rows of
people waiting in front the entrance, constantly making noise of babies’ crying,
children’s screaming, and adult’ complaining and arguing. The mass situation totally
destroyed my ideal image of the amusement park and snuffed out my passion for the
trip. At that time. I regarded the trip monotonous and tedious, only eager to end this
meaningless and disappointing journey.
At the moment Dad and Mom perceived my indignant and altered their plan,
taking me to a garden which just a few steps from the amusement park. In the garden,
not only could I see the captivating flowers blossoming, but I also immersed myself in
the joyful fragrance. Mom told me that there were always hindrances and tribulations
which blocked in my way, destroying my good mood, but we could always make us
happy again though there were some bad memories. I kept this in mind since then and
also thought it whenever I feel bad in my life.