The Maker family is not your average family. On the outside, they look like a normal
family of three. But secretly, they are all undercover government agents, each with a superpower
of his or her own, who take care of emergencies that normal police can’t. Today is just another
ordinary day for the Makers. Having just captured an alien spaceship without altering their
neighbors the day before, they decided to sleep in a little then head out for their next assignment,
which is removing a nano-technology bomb from the ferries wheel in an amusement park. As they
parked their car in the morning, little Ann, the daughter, was excited because this was the first
time she would be allowed to use her powers in action, which was freezing time. Of course, her
parents, who were very experienced, were not worried at all. However, they were met with a
terrible enemy once they set out for the park, traffic jam. Little Ann was thrilled. She proposed to
work with her mother, whose powers were being able to control objects with her mind. Seeing it
was the best solution, her parents agreed. With outstanding teamwork, they transferred
themselves to the park in minutes, right before the park opened. Then, to their dismay, another
problem arose, a massive crowd waiting in line! Once again, little Ann came up with an answer.
Their whole family could work together. Her father, who could change the size of any object and
also make them invisible could shrink her and make her invisible. Her mother could then send her
inside the park, over the gates unnoticed. Little Ann, who was extremely skilled with devices,
plans, technology, and machines, was actually already an outstanding agent even without her
super powers. After being successfully sent into the amusement park without being seen, she
quickly located the whereabouts of the bomb and hurried over. Once she arrived, she swiftly
dismantled the bomb with ease. Then, all of a sudden, the bomb started to make unusual sounds.
Within a second, the bomb exploded. But, it exploded into confetti and party ribbons! Today was
actually Ann’s birthday. Surprised and filled with joy, her parents soon appeared at the scene. In a
nutshell, this crazy day filled with problems ended up being the best day ever.