One crisp, sunny day, the Smiths decided to celebrate the first day of winter vacation by going on
a family trip. They had a quick vote to pick one out of three destinations to visit. It turned out that they
all wanted to go to the amusement park! The park was newly refurbished and was now having a
discount for groups of three. So Mama Smith packed a lunch and Papa Smith loaded the car with a
change of clothes for everyone. After a last-minute check, the trio happily hit the road.
Papa was behind the wheel and merrily listening to Mama and Little Jane singing road-trip songs
when cars in all four lanes of the highway stared slowing down. Dropping their speed to a snail’s crawl,
the family started wondering what had gone wrong further down the road. Mama guessed it was a car
accident and Little Jane came up with the notion that a herd of deer had gotten run over. Papa turned on
the radio and tuned into the traffic channel for news to stop the argument between the two ladies. The
results were two racing Toyotas had crashed into a cement mixing truck. The truck had flipped on its
side and was now lying across three lanes, blocking the traffic. The Toyotas had crashed with such
force that their metal had melted and were now fused together. Upon hearing the devastating tragedy,
they considered heading home, but decided against it, having just one kilometer to go.
At last, they squeezed out of the chaos and arrived smoothly at the parking lot of the amusement
park. After searching around for an empty space, they finally spotted one in a far corner. Papa pulled
into the space, and the three enthusiastically hopped off the car. To their dismay, there was already a sea
of people waiting for entrance. Now, even if they entered the park, they would only have four hours to
play, without calculating the time they’d be spending waiting in line for a ride. All three family
members were tired, hungry, and cross from all the traffic. Little Jane started throwing a fit when she
realized they wouldn’t be going into the park. Then Papa proposed that they go for a picnic. Little Jane
stopped crying, and agreed to go.
When Papa coasted to a stop at their picnic spot, Little Jane was awed. Mama had a funny look
on her face. They all sat down at the picnic table by the beautiful lake, munching their sandwiches and
sipping punch. After the meal, Little Jane went about chasing squirrels, frogs, and blue jays, too busy
to notice Mama and Papa holding hands. This used to be their favorite dating spot. The lovers and their
child made a beautiful picture against the scenery. And the day ended well for everyone.