Waked up by the rub of sun beams and the clamour of birds, Judy rose up from the bed jubilantly
because it was a family tour today. After sprucing herself up, she came outside to bathe in the warm
sunshine; meanwhile, her dad was placing all their baggages onto the car. Along with the nice rhythm
from her dad, Judy happily talked about the place they were about to leave for. It was a wonderful
museum displaying a great variety of dolls which she had been obsessed with and longing for. On their
way to the destination, however, they were stuck in the traffic jam out of their expectation. The hustle
and bustle on the road made Judy feel utterly depressed and dismayed. What accompanied them in the
car was the humdrum sound of the horn and repetitive reports from the radio. Her parents were all
complaining about the tragedy head on, not knowing what to do next but hope they could soon get rid
of this horrendous nightmare!
Fatigued and exhausted they finally reached the destination, only to find outside the building
packed with numerous people to a degree that they couldn’t see the contour. Disheartened again, they
had no alternative but to think about abandoning this itinerary or choosing another scenic spot. Judy
was weeping about the loss of the opportunity, her heart being like a sunlit hill shrouded in thick smog.
After a long discussion, they reached consensus – to go to the mountain resorts in the neighboring area.
Once again a tortuous and rugged way to the summit, they eventually climbed high up the top.
Perspiration oozing out of their clothes, they couldn’t help panting. However, their sadness were
dispelled when they saw such picturesque sight befolding before their eyes! Sweats turned into the joy
and glee when they shouted happily and sprawled their body on the grassy field. Judy relished the song
from the birds. She nestled under a big tree, daydreaming about this slice of the paradise. Although she
couldn’t have access to the doll exhibition, she got more feedback and reflection. She felt quite
tranquil, dancing in her sweet nap until the clamour of the bird and the warmth of sun beams waked her
up.