As a Taiwanese , there are two things that I take pride in. One is our local cuisine, and another is the magnificent scenery. I have travelled to many countries and tasted a wide variety of foods. Although each kind of them is distinctive and delicious, after a few meals, the most preferable food in mind will always be those sold in nightmarkets in Taiwan. The taste and smell are not the only aspect I missed, but also the atmosphere. Instead of dining in a luxurious restaurant with delicate utensils, bustling through the streets while gorging in the pig blood cake and interacting with friends along the way is what I love the most. Besides the atmosphere, the tradition of Taiwanese food is what I am proud of, too. Many of them had their origins hundreds of years ago when our ancestors first approached this island. They reinvented the foods they were familiar with to adapt to the lifestyle here. The culture and the efforts the ancestors made behind Taiwanese cuisines are of significance. Apart from foods, I've been to numerous well-known landmarks around the world. I thought that I wouldn't be amazed by the landscapes in Taiwan after visiting the renowned places. But I was totally wrong. The mountains and valleys are always breathtaking and I often wonder how come a small island in such a big world has such stunning scenery. The rivers streaming down cut through enormous rocks like magic. I feel proud growing up around these gorgeous mountains and calling this place home. 
It's a shame that there is so much to explore in Taiwan but we didn't catch the world's attention. I suppose that making more films and shows related to Taiwanese culture | can draw foreigners to experience it. Just as the Koreans, we should put more emphasis on advertising such things we are proud of through the internet or television since the entire world is connected by technology. Another effective measure I came up is holding more international events or competitions. We can have competitions for local foods that foreign cooks would be interested in participating in. Or we can hold more races like the Taroko Valley biking race. The race appeals to bikers each year and some even decided to stay in Tainan because of the unique experience. We should broadcast these events and let the world learn more about our homeland. It dawned on me that we must also introduce our two irreplaceable features to others while traveling to other countries and I hope that in the near future, I can greet more foreigners here and tell them proudly, "welcome to my home, Taiwan!"
