Taiwan, my dear home town, is an island of awe-inspiring natural beauty and thought-provoking cultural treasure, giving birth to my open-minded las well as heart-warming soul. The various landscape and tourist spots, for example, are one of the aspects I'm highly proud of. Taiwan is small in comparison to many popular tourist destinations, but it is not at all less worth visiting When it comes to Taiwan, many foreigners regard Taipei 101 as the icon of Taiwan. I once visited the Google office in Taipei 101 and enjoyed the sweeping view of the prosperous city from a high position. Standing besides the window, I was surprised that. the skyscrapers that looked so tall when I walked at the busy and noisy streets all became tiny toy blocks lying along the winding river in silence. My jaw almost dropped, What is even more jaw-dropping is the formidable sight of the Taroko Valley in the eastern side of Taiwan.Taking a stroll in the national park, people are bound to be surprised by the tall, steep cliff that B almost perfectly perpendicular to the ground. Besides breathtaking landscapes, Taiwan is also full of cultural tourists spots featuring the comparatively short yet colorful history. Spending a whole afternoon in Tainan, people can regain the warmth and pleasure of historical wisdom by visiting several old castles, majestic temples, and time-honored ruins. Another thing that I'm very proud of is the friendly and hospitable nature of Taiwanese people. Every time I go to a traditional market, the first thing that embraces me is always the greeting from the amiable vendors. It is even said that one thing a visitor to Taiwan must try is getting lost" because Taiwanese people are all happy to give him or her directions and share information about the tourist spots and local delicacies nearby 
As a member of Taiwan, I believe it is my responsibility to introduce these wonderful aspects of Tainan to the whole world. With a view to the sky rocketing popularity of social media, operating a website featuring photos and stories of Taiwan may be a good way to attain this goal. I would like to make the best use of my ability to take beautiful photos and capture the memorable moments I encounter in every corner of Taiwan, write down the interesting things that happen around me, and share them with people around the globe via the Internet. If my foreign friends want to take a trip in Taiwan, I'm also willing to provide them with useful information and even be their guide, Introducing them to the stunning landscapes and heart-warming Taiwanese people. By doing so, I believe more and more people will fall in love with Taiwan and even join with me to make Taiwan more and more beautiful 
