For the past eighteen years, I've grown from an innocent infant into a mature adolescent, into a real Taiwanese. In retrospect, Taiwan has impressed me in many ways. And among all, in my opinion, kindness of people and the natural resources are things that I take pride in the most. To begin with, people in Taiwan are all gracious and humble at heart. Despite all odds in Teach individual's life, helshe will reach out to those who lead a life of more adversities and predicament than his her own one, It is people's heartfelt and genuine compassion for those in need that I'm amazed at. And at times, I am, too, on the receiving end of people's kindness and blessing. So warm and caring Taiwanese are that it indeed builds a rather strong connection between I every one's life, and the kind deeds of Taiwanese will never ever die after centuries. Secondly, being located in Pacific Ocean and subtropical area, Taiwan has a lot to offer when it comes to natural resources. Magnificent gorges, blossom of aromatic flowers, spectacular sight of the ocean, and the unparalled beauty of mountains and creeks have never failed to intoxicated me with extasy. Dwelling in such a heaven-like place, I derive a great sense of merriment in my daily life. All these Taiwan is absolutely a country I, and all the islanders here as well, should be proud of. 
Speaking of ways to showcase Taiwan's uniqueness and I beauty, I have a few ideas up in my sleeves. First of all, the government can proffer opportunities to young people to go backpacking around the world. During their journey, they can show people in exotic countries how beautiful Taiwan is, and encourage foreigners to pay a visit to Taiwan someday. Also, I recommend that the government create a board game like Monopoly, in which breathtaking scenery, scrumptious delicacy, and characteristic of Taiwanese people are shown after the dice was thrown. If we spread this kind of board game throught the world, foreigners will have a greater and vivid images of what Taiwan may probably be. This way, I believe that Taiwan will one day be widely recognized by the entire world. 
 
