Of the many reasons I can find to be proud of my Taiwanese heritage, there are two that stand out ¡V culture and healthcare. Some people might say that there is no such thing as "Taiwanese culture", but I disagree. It's true that we are a combination of many different backgrounds - the Aborigines, the Dutch, the Japanese, and the multiple types of Chinese. This vibrant mix of cultures has provided a backdrop for us, but Taiwanese have also added some parts that are uniquely their own. The bubble milk tea craze that swept the planet is a prime example for our innovation and passion when it comes to delicacies. Taiwan's health care system is also ranked near the top of the list. The National Healthcare Insurance, which was launched in 1995, provides high-quality medical assistance to nearly all of its citizens. The insurance is mandatory and runs on a sliding scale, meaning that the amount you pay is based on how much you ear. This makes it much more affordable to the public. Even in countries such as the United States, the lack of health insurance means that many people must pay thousands of dollars for simple medical treatment, while others simply cannot afford to see a doctor. I believe that Taiwan, while still having many places to work on, has been very successful in these two areas, and I'm extremely proud of that. 
Taiwan has been working hard to showcase its rich culture, and there are several ways to help further promote it. Advertisements and news coverage would certainly attract people's attention, especially when seeking a vacation spot. Taking part in global activities, such as sports events and exhibitions, will also be beneficial. During the 2017 Summer Universiade in Taipei, the theme song, which was in an Aboriginal language was heard and praised by thousands of people. The event also led to a spike in tourism, with many opting to have a look around after attending the sports games. As for health care, the central government has crafted detailed websites and videos about the system. Sharing these online could lead to more people coming to Taiwan for long-term business ventures, as they would also be eligible for the insurance Taiwan is a beautiful and very welcoming place, and I truly hope that more people can get to know more about this amazing country. 

