Nowadays, Taiwan, our beautiful Formosa, has come to take the center stage of global tourism. Myriads of foreign backpackers flock into Taiwan to witness the beauty of the island, and most of them are attracted by two of Taiwan's characteristics ¡X history and natural landscapes. According to my pen pal from Japan, who just gave Taiwan a visit a month ago, the historic heritages in Tainan and the gorgeous scenery of Mt. Jade are so unforgettable and amazing that she even plans to visit them again in next years. When hearing her praises, I was pleased and proud of our country. With the prosperity of the economy and the merciless invasion caused by urban development, it's hard to preserve both historic ruins and natural environment; however, Taiwan miraculously made it! Reconciling economic development with environmental and historic preservation, Taiwanese protected this beautiful treasures from being destroyed. In addition, despite the ethnic diversity, every citizen dwelling in the island spared no effort to protect and respect the historic values of those old temples, aged architectures and so on. The unconditional love for the heritages made our history shine more brightly. Also, our enthusiasm on our nature kept our environment, such as mountains, gorges and valleys intact. This is why Taiwan is famous for the history as well as the nature at home and abroad, and also the reason why I am so proud of them. 
However, the promotion of Taiwanese tourist spots is far from enough. From my prospective, I firmly believe that our Formosa is definitely a paradise for those history lovers and nature lovers, but to my astonishment, the number of foreign tourists is on drastic decrease. Due to the decline of visitors, the authority concerned has gotten down to promote the beauty of Taiwan, appealing every citizen to help it. In my opinion, we can utilize the Internet and take advantage of its accessibility. For instance, the government can turn to some bloggers and Youtubers for help. In their blogs or channels, they can introduce some of Taiwan's tourist destinations to their audience. Once interested in Taiwan, the views will subscribe to them and keep tabs on them, longing for further understanding. In the meantime, they may Share the information they receive with their friends, and in tum make Taiwan more known to foreigners. Furthermore, the government can circulate the tourist guides as well. With the circulation of travel guides, it is easier for tourists visiting Taiwan to gain better understanding. Following the guide, they can explore this island in a special way which is beyond their routines. By taking all the measures mentioned above, I believe, Taiwan will capture the world's attention and become a superstar in global tourism! 
