Being one of the luckiest people to be borned in Taiwan, there are lots of things that I'm proud of. Everything in Taiwan is distinctive, fun, and unreplaceable. Among all the great things about Taiwan, there are two specific facts I personally adore. One is the people, and the other is the security. The dynamic people in Taiwan is pretty well - known around the world, for travelers' nice words and reactions when returning back home. Taiwan people are kind and generous, they help those in need without a doubt. When seeing a person seeking for a hand, they'll drop everything they were coping with and reach out. One of the most touching news I ever came across with, was an incident happened years ago. A car flipped over after crashing into something, the people around all came to help to lift up the car. | Whether they were just passing by or stopping for the traffic light all came down to help. Not one excluded. The news touched my heart, for the beauty of such kindness in humaity is quite rare to find. As for my love of I Taiwan's safety is another thing that's hard to find in other countries. Taiwan's safe enviorment is one thing that most forigener are envious of. Most countries suffer from terrious attack, robbery, and random killing. The | rareness of such things in Taiwan makes it an ideal place to stay. However the low rates of criminal wasn't due to strict dicipline, in fact, Taiwan is one of the places that doesn't have much restrictions. Therefore in my point of view, the reason behind this is because the trust between people. Funnily enough, back in a full circle, the beauty of Taiwan's people relys in all circumstances. 
If I were to promot the distinguise of Taiwan, I propose a small trip for forigen students sponsered by the goverment. Teens have more thoughts and are the root for the future, thus it's important to let people these age broaden their horizen and have an open mind. To extand Taiwan's culture around the world it's crucial we put efforts into the tourism industry. Aside from 
experiencing in person, promoting online is another way. With the advantage of internet, we can now see the world without actually landing on it. Making advertisments or dramas that conclude our culture will boost the interest of forigher as well. Take Korea for example, their dramas have successfully became the most watched shows in the world, giving a rise to their tourism income, planting interests of people worldwide, eager to know more about their culture. In condusion , entertainment and tourism come hand in hand, hence, if I were the government authorties concerned, I will take these factors into account Seriously 
 
