As a loyal member of the big Tainan community, I am truly and deeply convinced that Taiwan is a beautiful country filled with hospitable residents, warm affection and brilliant colors of ethnical cultures. Among all the beauty and advantages, I percieve two things as precious assets of Taiwan: traditional Taiwanese shacks and Cloud Gate. To begin with everyone enjoys devouring divine delicacies and gorging on tasty dishes. Therefore, I view traditional snacks in Taiwan as one of the treasures I am proud of. Taking a relaxing stroll down the Night Markets, a wide variety of eye-openers, such as the odorous but crunchy and spongy stinky tofu, the juicy and tangy oyster omelet and the sweet and mellow pearl milk tea will all stimulate] our appetites, which render us eager to take a bite on those mouth-watering snacks. Hence, they are absolutely the best advertisement to show the world how colorful Taiwan is. As for the other treasure Cloud Gate is definitely the priority. The founder, Ling Huai Ming, abolished the contraints and boundaries between Chinese and Western art cultures and perfectly mixed these two elements together, presenting the deepest beauty of dance to the whole world. This bravery and novelty really strikes me since it never dawn on me that the combination of different styles and features can bring out breath-taking and aesthetic aspect of Tainan. Thus, I think the two 
above things mentioned are the most cherishable part of Taiwan. 
In order to show the whole global village our beauty participating in the International Culture Exhibition is not the only choice. With the increasing popularity of Internet resources and media, we can present the beauty of Taiwan by building websites and sending advertisment to the whole world. On the website, people in Taiwan are allow to update pictures of Taiwan's 
nature or urban sceneries traditional Taiwanese delicacies and so on. We can even provide comments to compliment the posts regarding the discoveries in Taiwan. Besides, we can display our cultural assets and features in other countries' museums and tour all over the globe so as to broaden foreigners horizons and introduce the beautiful island situating on the west of the massive Pacific ocean to them. With these action taken, we can eventually shine and be proud of being a member of the heart-warming Taiwan family. 

