As a citizen who lives in Taiwan, I am proud of the natural sceneries and the delicious snacks in this country. Taiwan, located on the west side of Pacific ocean, contains a great range lof beautiful sceneries. For instance, there are many peaks that| height over 1000 meters, which means that people can easily get the magnificent view in those outstanding mountains; other nations may not have this advantage. Known as Formosa, the spectacular sceneries in Taiwan are always a thing that Taiwanese people are boasting about. On the other hand, the special Snacks in Taiwan are also very famous. They are so tasty that I believe every tourist is impressed. The best example may come to beef noodles, which is even a symbol of Taiwanese delicacies. Personally, I love the beef noodles most because of its intense flavor and the chewy beef slices in it. Other snacks such as stinky tofu, bubble milk tea and the mouth-watering fried egg with oysters are all typical ones that can only be seen and tasted in Taiwan. These appealing dishes not only represent the spirit of my country but also satisfy all the pickiest gourmets around the world, for the unique tastes are just as great as they can be. 
Because of these two special aspects in Taiwan, we should no doubt try our best to promote them. As the Internet is getting more and more popular nowadays, it serves as the best thing to advertise the goodies of Taiwan. We can take advantage of the travel websites that are Internationally available to let every Traveler see the beauty of Taiwan. Furthermore, I think the governments are responsible for information, so that people who are not familiar with the country are able to get to know Tt; this is crucial because people would be more willing to visit a country as long as they are acquainted with it beforehand. Last but not least, we can make some foreign friends when we are abroad or when they come to Taiwan for the first time. By introducing Taiwanese beautiful sceneries and its flavorable dishes, they might generate the motivation of visiting Taiwan That thay have never had. The charm of Taiwan will never fade out if we do our best. 
 
