On June 10th, 2012, I was invented by the most famous engineer in the world.
Better yet, I was claimed to be the most cutting-edge cellophane with numerous
functions. Due to the wonderful functions I owned, I considered myself the best
assistant for people. Yet, little did I know that my existence would lead my owner to
an extremely awful predicament.
No sooner had my brothers and I released than we had been bought in two
hours. At that moment, we took pride in ourselves, and determined to prove how
splendid we were. My owner, Mark, bought me and my brother. He gave my brother
for his girlfriend as a birthday present. Receiving a smartphone, she got ecstatic, being
eager to try all of the functions. Mark and his girlfriend walked toward to the cram
school together while indulging themselves in using me and my brother. Initially, we
felt cheerful, and confident! Nevertheless, on account of not taking heed of the
situation of the road, Mark’s girlfriend bumped into a tree, bled massively, and my
brother fragmented into pieces. What was worse, Mark did not notice that his
girlfriend get injured because of listening to music by me. Seeing what tragedy my
brother facing, I gradually lost my ambitious. Instead of showing off how great I
could be, I made every effort to prevent him from trying me. No matter how hard I
had moved my body, it seemed to have no movements for him. No matter how loudly
I have yelled out, he could not hear me. No matter how severely I had damaged my
functions, he still had others to plat with. Everything I had attempted to stop him was
of no use! All of a sudden, a man driving a car rapidly toward us, as if he flew into
rage, hurried to somewhere, and not decided to slow down. Frightened and
dumbfounded, I was caught in a coma.
As luck would have it, I shut down because of losing my consciousness. Mark
stopped paying his full attention to me, saw a car, jumped toward the sidewalk, and
got a narrow escape! I abruptly realized how dangerous I could become!