Well goes the proverb, “Misfortune may be a blessing in disguise.” However,
situations differ tremendously due to the misfortunes a man encountered.
Nowadays, as technology improved, smartphones had begun to gain popularity
among adolescents. It is not unusual to see student walking with their earphones on or
putting their attention on smartphones while strolling on the streets. Commonly, these
behaviors are considered dangerous and inappropriate. However, the case for Jack and
Jill led to an entirely different result.
Jack and Jill were brother and sister who were both high school students at the
year 2000. That day, they were, as usual, walking to school. Jack was walking in a
bright mood with his earphones on. Jill, on the other hand, was using her smartphone.
Then came the accidents. Jill, who wasn’t paying much attention to her
surroundings, bumped right into a tree. What’s worse, a beehive dangling from one of
the tree branches fell off, and thus led to the outrush of these aggressive venomous
species, stinging Jill all over. Meanwhile, Jack, who hadn’t noticed the “beep” sound
of a car traveling at high speed behind him, got hit by a car, leading to his permanent
limp and profound blindness. They were both sent to the hospital for medical
treatment at the instant. However, the accidents did not lead them to despair and
sorrow. They then found their interest in bees and earphones. Years later, with the
book Bee-ctionary that Jill published to introduce the behaviors of bees, and Jack’s
invention of earphones that can play music and send in traffic alerts at the same time,
they won themselves the Nobel Prize in 2020.
Jack and Jill stated in an interview recently though that they both regretted using
electronic devices while walking on the streets, but there wouldn’t be these
magnificent discoveries if they hadn’t come by the accident. To sum up, Jack and Jill
strongly recommended adolescents to take off their earphones and put away their
smartphones so as to keep away from possible deaths and injuries.