On a warm and sunny afternoon, Chevady and his girlfriend, Wendy, were on
their way home. Since they had just finished their final exams that day and didn’t
have much homework, Chevady and Wendy decided to take their time by taking a
romantic walk in the park.
When Chevady and Wendy arrived at the park, everything seemed to be covered
in a layer of gold as the sun’s reflection on the pond shimmering along with the wind.
Despite the beautiful scenery, neither of them were able to enjoy it because Wendy
was busy texting her best friend about the newest movies and Chevady was listening
to Justin Bieber’s new album. During their walk in the park, neither did they chat with
each other, nor did they hold hands. It was not romantic at all. Chevady and Wendy
were so absorbed in their own world that they didn’t even notice the obstacle right in
the middle of the road. Despite being such an obvious obstacle in front of them, they
did not take note of the tree and continued to walk straight along the path. Eventually,
Wendy and her cell phone bumped straight into the tree with a loud sound. The tree
was shook so hardly that its leaves began to fall on to the ground. Even though
everyone else in the park was shocked by the loud sound and the sight of a poor girl
crashing into a tree, Chevady didn’t even notice what had happened to his girlfriend.
Chevady continued to enjoy his music at maximum volume and set off on his way
back home. When Chevady was about to cross the street, he didn’t notice the traffic
lights and continued to walk deliberately. Suddenly, Chevady heard a loud screeching
sound and saw an angry driver honking his horn. Chevady suddenly realized that he
just escaped from being hit by a car.
After Chevady’s lift-threatening experience, he swore to himself that he would
never listen to loud noise in public again. Not only was it dangerous for himself, it
could also harm the people around him. He called Wendy and they promised each
other that they would not enclose themselves in their own worlds on future dates.