John is a high-school student who loves to listen to music. He likes every
category of music and wants to become a professional musician one day. But he is
also sometimes too clumsy and careless, which often results in some troubles for him.
One day, walking home from school, he took out the ipod he just received from
his mom as a birthday gift, and turned the volume to an extent that he had almost
blocked himself from the world outside. He switched the song to his favorite song,
Beatles’s Yellow Submarine, and started swaying the rhythm of the music. So happy
and joyous was he that he bumped into a girl without even noticing her. The girl lost
balance and then bumped into a tree because she wasn’t paying attention on the road,
either. There was a mother and her little daughter that witnessed all of this, so the
mother decided to warn John to be careful on the road. However, John’s music was all
he could hear then, so her shouts and warnings were pretty much in vain, though she
tried very hard. John kept on walking, and the music player kept on playing.
When John reached a crossroad, he was suddenly shocked. There was a loud,
constant noise coming straight to his ears which even made he wonder if the music
player was broken. He decided to take his headphones off and checked whether the
machine was alright. Not until he took them did he realized that. The annoying sound
was from an automobile, whose driver had turned so raged because John had actually
been blocking his way for about ten minutes. John felt sorry immediately and
recognized that what he had done in the past thirty minutes was very dangerous and
irresponsible, so he decided to make up for it.
He walked to the driver and wanted to apologize to him, in a sense of guilty.
Luckily, the driver knew that John was only focusing too much on the music, which
was a cause that could be forgiven. So he didn’t blame John much, instead, he smiled
warmly at John at the end and told him that he should be more careful next time, in a
polite manner. John then went home with carefulness, and safely arrived.
Thanks to the driver’s warm heart, John had never made such a mistake in his
life again. He had grown in that incident and become a more cautious person. And
you know what? He is now a famous singer, and he had actually written this
experience into one of his songs!