I just got a new iPod from my father last week, and it had been the greatest
birthday gift I had ever received. Featuring the newest functions, this iPod which was
painted bright purple allowed me to listen to the music I wanted at anytime. One day
after class, I put my earphones on and cheerfully went home. I then turned the volume
so loud that enabled my heart to beat to every single note that flew from the
earphones. At the same time, there was a girl walking by my side. She had an iPod
just like mine and was almost drowned in her iPod world too.
As we were walking forward, a sudden scream struck my ears. It seemed that
the girl was so busy using her device that she didn’t notice that there was a huge tree
standing in front of her until her head hit the trunk. A mother and her kid had seen the
incident, and they were both stunned. After they slowly came to their senses, I heard
the mother said to her kid: “That’s very dangerous, daring. Those people just ignored
their surroundings and that’s not good.” However, I just kept enjoying my music even
after I heard her words. I was not that careless, I thought.
However, when I was about to get home, I was nearly scared to death when a car
driver suddenly made a loud sound to me. He was furious that I didn’t notice his car
was coming. Frightened, I just stepped back to the road, right in front of a fast-moving
car. There was a scream, suddenly cut short, and in few seconds it was all over. I lay
on the road and the whole world went black.
Then, I woke up, with my eyes wild open. Still had fear in my heart, I quickly
sat up in bed. The room was cool and quiet, with both windows open. The moon was
high in the sky, and its soft light fell on my bedroom floor. There was no iPod, no
accident, and no blood. But I was still afraid, and I could not sleep again. I looked at
my watch: 4:52 a.m., and today was my birthday. Dad told me that he would buy me
an iPod for my birthday. However, I was now so certain that I would use it properly
and never ever be a careless guy.