Sunlight stretched elegantly upon the earth, lacquering everything with a touch
of its golden beams. The birds were chirping a cheerful tune on the trees, while the
wind gently caressed the rattling leaves. It was yet another cool spring morning. A
mother and her cute little daughter, were appreciating the beauty which the world had
to offer. They admired the harmonious symphony God had created in awe. However,
two reckless students were too indulged in themselves that didn’t even bother to pay
attention to the world.
Tim and Sue were that two petulant teenagers. They had been a couple for two
years. Recently, they were so addicted to their mobile phones that they started to
neglect each other. They usually chatted happily and shared the bitter and sweets of
life on their way to school, hand in hand. But now, Sue always groped in her bag for
her iPhone and immersed herself in the kingdom of “Candy Crush.” With her eyes
glued to the screen, she kept fiddling her fingers to complete the tasks. As for Tim, he
was always listening to his favorite band － The Wanted’s songs. He preferred to put
on headphones and turn the volume to the maximum, and danced to the rhythm and
beats as if nobody were beside him.
This time, luck wasn’t on their side. Sue bumped right onto a big oak tree, and
her forehead instantly swollen up. She rubbed her painful head and found out that she
got several bruises. On the other hand, Tim nearly encountered a car accident. With
the music playing loudly, he failed to notice a series of furious honks from a taxi
driver. They were both startled and realized how careless and foolish they had been.
They were fortunate enough to have the chance to root out their bad habits before
something fatal really happened.
As the day dragged on. Their sense of guilt and regret urged them to put away
their precious cell phones. The sun became a reddish-orange orb on the west horizon,
leaving the clouds painted with a faint hue of twilight. Tim and Sue telepathically
looked at each other, with love and contentment. Without meaningless distractions,
they were able to cherish each other with every piece of their heart. Without the time-
wasting gadgets, they finally could start to take in the seemingly normal but
breathtaking sceneries in daily life. This lesson and memory would be deeply
engraved in the depths of their hearts, forever.