One day after school, Josh and Abby were walking home together. However,
both of them were so into their smatphones that not a word was exchanged between
them. Abby was checking out her Facebook page, and Josh had headphones on,
listening to rap music. It wasn’t before long they forgot they were walking together.
Since both of them weren’t watching where they were heading, accidents that
could have been avoided fell upon them. First was Abby. She was so absorbed in
reading other people’s posts on Facebook that she failed to notice the fact that she was
walking straight into a tree. With a loud “thud,” she fell to the ground, rubbing her
forehead and searching for her phone. However, Josh, who was in his music world,
wasn’t even aware of Abby running into a tree.
Josh continued to head home, not paying attention to anything happening around
him. Then came the intersections. Since it was about five p.m., cars and motorcycles
were roaming everywhere, but Josh was unaware of it. Josh reckless cross the road
without checking to see if any vehicles were coming, which led to the accident. A car
was honking at Josh to catch his attention, for the driver was too fast to stop. The
driver kept press the horn, but just couldn’t catch Josh’s attention. And just like that,
Josh and the vehicle collided.
Upon the impact, both Josh’s headphone and his smartphone were knocked out
of Josh’s hands. Josh fell, unable to gather strength from his legs to support him. He
even heard a loud “snap” from his right leg. Injured and frightened Josh couldn’t
move. All he could do was lie there and wait for the ambulance to come. The driver
that ran into him came out of the car and called Josh’s parents to inform them of the
tragedy. When the ambulance came, Josh was lifted into the singing vehicle and
transported to the hospital, where he was meet by his parents and checked by the
doctor.
As it turns out, the accident had broken Josh’s right leg, making him unable to walk for six months. What’s worse, after his parents understood the cause of the
accident, they took away both the phone and the headphone, determined to give Josh a
lesson.
Josh had learned his lesson alright. With the injuries and the phone taken away,
there is no way that he will ever use his phone while he is walking again.