My mother took me to the park one Friday afternoon when I was five. It was just
another ordinary Friday afternoon, nothing special. As we walked down the street
heading for the park, two high school students came in from a cross road and walked
ahead of us. The girl with the pony tail kept her head low as if she was reading
something, but I couldn’t tell what it was. The boy was wearing ear muffs with lines
connected to a small black box he held in his waving hands. I was too young to know
what an iPod was.
My mother and I were talking to each other when both of us saw the girl crashed
into a tree at the corner of our eyes. A little box, just slightly bigger than the boy’s
box, fell out of her hand and landed on the ground with a “crack.” My mother rushed
to the girl to see if she was OK, and I picked up the little box. It was more like a thin
block of glass, actually, with one side almost shattered to pieces. Thankfully, besides
scratching the skin on her forehead, the girl was fine. Then, my mother started giving
her a lecture, but all I heard was iPhone, something, something, and not when you’re
walking.
During this time, none of us noticed the boy had trailed off the sidewalk and was
dangerously walking in the middle of street. While my mother was still busy giving
her lecture, I heard someone honking the horn, and it was only human nature to turn
your heard when you hear something. I still regret doing that until this day. The truck
behind the honking car got impatient and turned sideways to the other driveway. The
boy, for some reason, leaped sideways too, namely, right in front of the truck, and,
well, things got a little messy.
My mother heard the noise, screamed and covered my eyes; only it was just too
late. I had seen it all － the blood, the unconscious boy and the iPod that landed by my
feet. The witness of the accident gave me nightmares for a whole decade.
Now that years have past, and I am as old as the boy and the girl was then. I
finally understood that the boy’s “ear muffs” were headphones and the little boxes
were iPhones and iPods. The boy was probably dancing to the music when he leaped
sideways and got hit by the trunk. By the way, he died before the ambulance came.
The strings of his headphones got tangled around his neck and suffocated him when
he was unconscious.