The book I will choose is EVERYONE IS BEAUTIFUL: Respect Others &amp; Be
Yourself. It seems to tell me how to make the best of myself. As for my advantages, it
will guide me to discover them and draw on them. On the other hand, it will give me
the spiritual support to face my own drawbacks, and teach me how to eradicate them.
Futhermore, it will not only make me see myself more clearly, but it also help me to
get along with others smoothly. That is, it will surely elaborate how to respect others,
be it verbally or physically.
The reason why I choose this book is that I tend to have a radical mindset. I am
inclined to be too self-conceited due to my advantage, dazzling grades. Thus, I
despise my classmates for their incompetence in studying. However, none of human
beings is a divine. I have some defects, too. For example, when it comes to singing, I
am always out of tune, and the tempo is as hard to catch as a hare. In stead of
admiring others and asking them for help, I start to let the surge of self-inferiority
devour me. I do nothing but sob. Since I can’t truly accept myself, I similarly distort
others, such as calling others names and sneering at them. Neither can I be myself, nor
can I respect others. However, it is better late than never, and I am determined to
change my terrible mindset. This book may be the mirror, in which I can find out my
disadvantages. Also, this book may guide me to accept every aspect of myself. I will
gradually conquer the fear to face my defects, and then eradicate them. It is likely that
I may find it too hard to turn over a new leaf. However, as long as I follow the book
step by step, I know I can hold on. After the torture-like baptism, I will find one thing:
Every is beautiful in their own way. Studying is to me what singing is to my
classmates. I shouldn’t look down on either my classmates or myself, for we have our
respective sky to soar in. In turn, my classmates will see my change in attitudes
towards others and feel my whole-hearted respect. For me, this book is stairs, which
will lead to a whole new world, as I take them step by step.