I prefer reading the book “Everyone is Beautiful: Respect Others &amp; Be
Yourself.” In modern society, myriads of people put great emphasis on others’
appearances. Nonetheless, this superficial perspective toward life is growing more and
more common in spite of the fact that almost everyone knows that we should never
“judge a book by its cover.” As a result, it’s essential that this weird condition be
changed. As far as I am concerned, I guess there would probably be some inspiring
examples of confident people with gorgeous inner beauty rather than splendid
exterior. Furthermore, the book may possibly contain a number of practical methods
to build up one’s confidence and self-esteem. What’s more, learning to respect those
with deficiencies is also vital for modern people. On the whole, it must be an
impressive and thought-provoking book.
The world-known poet, Dante, once said, “Sail your own course and let people
talk.” This is what I learned from Nick VuJucic, the most respectable idol of mine.
Nick leads “a life without limbs;” however, he entitled his autography “Life without
Limits.” As I browsed through his book, it surprisingly dawned on me that he was
hardly confined by his lack of arms and legs and was capable of living his life to the
fullest. No sooner had I witnessed his “ridiculously good life” than I realized that it
was my own thought to myself that really counts. I am always making every effort to
meet others’ expectations and I have little confidence in myself. This problem gets on
my nerves all the time and makes me an extremely timid girl. I awfully desire being
my true self without caring about others’ opinions; nevertheless, it takes a great
amount of courage to do so. There are tens of thousands of extraordinary people who
stand as my model. Take the famous singer, Lady Gaga, for instance. In her popular
song, “Born this way,” she shows how she looks upon herself and expresses her true
feeling directly. She is just the kind of person that I want to be! But as a matter of fact,
I still dare not to do so since people around the world are not as open-minded as her, I
don’t want to end up like the Phantom of the Opera, being isolated and sneered at.
Consequently, I would like to read the book “Everyone is Beautiful” and find out
whether I have the ability to be confident enough to be my true self or not!