My choice for summer reading would, without a doubt, be Austin Young’s
Leadership is a Choice. As can be deducted from the title and the explanatory notes
“Conquer Your Fear and You Can Be a Leader Too,” this book is obviously about
facing phobias and weaknesses to become a true leader. General McArthur wrote in
his Prayer to His Son: “Build me a son, O Lord, who will strong enough to know
when he is weak, and brave enough to face himself when he is afraid.” Young will
offer tips and examples to achieve such a level of self recognition and clarity of mind,
thus enabling the reader to brave his fears and weaknesses, and walk proudly forward
on the path to leadership.
Never have I enjoyed the heavy responsibility that comes with leadership. Even
less do I like the power of such a position. However, being a critical thinker and well
organized, I am often propelled into becoming the leader of class events. To me,
leadership is far from a choice, it is a burden that I loathe. If I even have the chance, I
wriggle out of being a leader and am content to do just as I am told. Young puts
leadership in a wholy different light. He believes that leadership is a choice; a path
that starts from conquering fears. I have been an unwilling leader, but have I ever
been a true one, one who faces his fears? Have I not merely made lousy decisions and
ordered others to do things? If I read Young’s book, I may glean the truth of
leadership. My fear of responsibility originates from an illogical aversion of making
mistakes. I should face the fact that everyone blunders. In this global age,
entrepreneurship is on the rise. Anyone can become a CEO one day. It is a choice that
every person can make, even me, whose intense terror of leadership obilerates all else.
Because leadership is a choice, it is the choice to climb atop a high mountain to tread
paths of fear yet still reach the summit. Everyone can complete this road, even I.
Thus spoke Albert Lippman of leadership: “The final test of a great leader is that
he leaves behind him in other men the conviction to carry on.” Mayhap Young’s book
is the first baby step towards such greatness: greatness that every person with true
courage may achieve.