Household chores are anything but interesting. They are often tedious and tiring
work and everyone finds themselves reluctant to do household chores. However, as
far as I am concerned, each family member should be responsible for keeping the
house clean. Household chores should be distributed equally to every family member
for two reasons. To begin with, the equal distribution of household chores can avoid
conflicts between family members. For example, a woman may complaint that her
husband is always lying on the couch watching TV while she is occupied by all sorts
of chores. In the long run, this can lead to fierce quarrels, thus dampening the
atmosphere in the family. Therefore, if everyone shares household chores, a happy
family life will be guaranteed. Secondly, children as well as parents can benefits from
sharing household chores fairly. Children can learn to take on responsibilities while
parents can take a break after a long, exhausting day at work. In general, the equal
distribution of household chores plays an essential role in a family.
As for my family, household chores are well-distributed. My father does the
laundry every day while my mother cooks dinner and cleans the kitchen. My brother
vacuums the floor while I mop the floor. Moreover, we take turns taking out the
garbage and cleaning the bathroom once in a while. While mopping the floor is quite
easy, cleaning the bathroom is by no means a simple task. First of all, washing the
toilet takes a lot of effort, as I have to crouch down and brush the toilet, usually
causing pain in my back. Next, the smell of the cleaning detergent is piercing to my
nose; nevertheless, I have no option but to endure the awful smell throughout the
cleaning process. Last but not least, when I am washing the walls, I never finish it
without getting drenched. My pants become wet and heavy and my feet get
uncomfortable after soaking in water for such a long time. Doing household chores is
indeed tiring in my opinion; however, since it is tiring, making one person do
everything in the family is the last thing people should do. Instead, people should
distribute household chores fairly and do their parts well. In this way, every family
member can enjoy a happy family life as well as derive a great sense of
accomplishment.