Whose responsibility is it to maintain the quality of the environment in the
household? I am of the opinion that the burden of such a responsibility must not rest
on the shoulders of only some members of the family. The household is a living
environment shared by those who inhabit, and it is only reasonable to expect each one
of them to do their share to keep everything as clean and tidy as possible. Home has
always been seen as somewhere to relax, to cut loose on those pesky restrictions on
where one was allowed to dispose of a used plate or a piece of worn clothing. This is
a pleasant idea at first, yet it is not hard to see how it leads quickly to a horrendous
mess that no-one is willing to take care of. My stance on the distribution of
housework is instead that no-one in the family should expect anyone else to take care
of the mess they made, but also that every member should be as active as possible in
helping the others tidy up any spots they may have missed. This manifests as small
gestures such as washing a mug and returning it to the kitchen shelf, or placing a pair
of shores properly at the doorstep. Tedious at first, but once established as a shared
habit, the family will no longer have to worry about the dreaded, accumulated
messiness.
I have observed first hand an extraordinary example of this strategy in a place no
other than my home. The idea that everyone shares their portion of responsibility in
housework has been instilled in our family since I was young. I was taught always to
return an item after use, and never to ignore when something is misplaced. My family
has the additional benefit of several members being surprisingly efficient at, or even
outright obsessive with, specific task: aside from keeping his own desk organized, my
father takes pleasure in spending his leisure time flipping through the years of
magazines he collected and arranging them in chronological order. My mother is an
avid fan of the art of vacuum cleaning. As for me, I find no sight more satisfying than
a row of freshly washed, pearl white dishes. I take great pride in how there never is
the discussion over who is finally going to sort through the pile of miscellaneous
objects because there never is such a pile. For we, we a family, have learnt that-
through respecting each other, taking pleasure in doing our parts, and being
enthusiastic in helping with the tasks that we share—not only that maintaining the
quality of the environment in the household is a responsibility that rests on the
shoulders of each and every family member, but also that it is, if done right, much
more of a joy than it is a burden.