House chores should be equally distributed among family members for it is the
responsibility of all family members to maintain their home, overcoming laziness and
prejudices. Laziness is in the core of human nature, but if house chores are not
regarded as bothersome works, but as services to the entire family, laziness would be
conquered by another human nature, responsibility. Another common reason that one
would use to avoid house work is the prejudice that men should work outdoors and
women should do housechores indoors, which is deeply rooted in the Chinese society.
However, in the modern era, women work outdoors as often as men, so ding
housechores should not be women’s responsibility alone. Doing housechores is the
symbol of devotion to the family, and in accomplishing tiny tasks such as washing
dishes, doing laundry or sweeping the floor, one can feel more attached to his or her
home. It is a feeling that no amount of money can match up to, so regardless of
gender or job, housechores should be equally distributed among family members.
In my home, everyone does his or her assigned housechores. My mom cooks
dinner and my dad washes dishes. My brother and I take the garbage out. On
Saturdays, we clean our house thoroughly. I am in charge of the fourth floor, where
my room is located. I vacuum the floor and then mop it. Thankfully, my room is very
clean, for I seldom stay in my room unless sleeping. The second floor, where the
living room and the kitchen is located, is a mess. My father has to move about dozens
of random objects to reveal the flat surface of the table, but on Sunday, the table is
again covered with a cluster of things. Where this is people, there is mess. Through
my experience of doing housechores, I learn that the essence of life lies in these small
actions. No one would be willing to live in a dirty environment, so doing housechores
is a ceremony that one ought to do repeatedly to achieve the goal of acquiring a clean
home. Doing housechores is like learning. No one should stop learning because
someday those knowledge would be forgotten. In doing housechores and learning, we
can accumulate, bit by bit, the meanings of life.