How to ameliorate the environment has been an issue of the first magnitude so that various countermeasures have been designed in response, including replacing driving with walking and biking, consuming only organic food, and reusing wastes. Taking feasibility, efficiency, and the regard of economy into consideration. I regard that reusing wastes outshines the alternatives and is the most worthy task to implement.

It is an auspicious beginning for environmental protection relying on reusing wastes for greater feasibility. While walking and bicycling rather than driving burden the people who need long-distance commuting due to long travel time and setting only organic food available could result in food shortage because of deficient supplement, reusing wastes suggests more feasibility. Recycling paper and plastic to give them a new life through modern technique machine doesn't spend us any time and labor. However, this essential concept boasts declining the number of trees cut for generating paper by repeatedly utilizing re-generated paper.

Reusing wastes should be promoted by people nowadays for another reason: efficiency. When it comes to walking or bicycling to substitute driving, numerous hours is unavoidably wasted on commuting. On the other hand, serious evaluation on nutrient is needed for abandoning ingests not organic food. Differently, people convert flyers into trash boxes, polish shoes by broken toothbrush every day, receiving prompt environmental fulfillment, heaping less stress on ecology through sample reusing.

Designing an environmental preservation plan without limiting economic development is an excepted outcome, reusing wasted wonderfully approach the target than other two since eliminating driving as a result of transportation encourages people spending time on commuting but no working, and limiting the ingestion in organic food confines the growth of other types of food producers. Conversely, reusing wastes boasts several related industries and research departments. Several technologic ideas started with improving the environment, simultaneously, create enormous incomes. It is reusing wasted that combines protesting the ecology and animating the economic activities.

Given the more obvious advantages of reusing wastes-greater feasibility, efficiency, and economic development-this practice should be regarded as the ideal strategy to improve our environment.

