Learning to live in harmony with environment and keep it sound is increasingly important, necessitating new approaches to achieve. Government set several stages for preserving the nature and avoiding the advancing damage to the surroundings. Three possible methods are available: fund for alternative energy, Preserve nature place and enforce the law related to air and water pollution. Among these methods, preserve nature place may be the most effective and viable one for the following reasons.
The presence of the alternative energy like solar, tide and wind could be a solution to the decline in oil and gas. However, with the limit of money and location, the research may remain unfeasible. A great amount of money is necessary to develop such research. Thus, inevitably, restrict to fund in agriculture, economy and military. Such investment is a burden on a developing country which struggles for funding in every department. Besides, the factors of climate dramatically impact the effect of research. The energy support depended on nature is unstable because only on certain seasons or days can maximum the power of these green energy. In other situation, the result is limited. A big amount of fossil fuel still utilized.
Enforcing laws to control companies from polluting may also result in a circumstance that doesn\'\'t benefit the ecology. As strict a law aiming at ecology is set, The companies are forced to increase the fund in reducing and recycling the waste. In the ensuing situation, the profit of the companies cuts down. The companies unwilling to pay for ecology adopt illicit activities for the purpose of eluding the punishment of strict ecological laws leading to a potential damage. Moreover, some companies move abroad when the laws are imminent. The government suffers from the decline in economic development.
The preservation of the natural place and the protection of native animals are the most feasible way to protect the environment. Little fund and few bad influences on companies make this policy more reliable with little or no negative by-product produced. Meanwhile, the extinction of animals is an irreversible damage to our surroundings. It is an urgency to keep a species alive. In the perspectives of the sustainable development, Preservation of natural place is the most important event we should do.
All of the three methods deal great benefits for ecology in different aspects. Nonetheless, the second method - Preserve the natural places like forests and protect the animals that live there - is a proper and time-limited idea that should be implemented first. 
