Numerous fast food restaurants set up in the city leading to a myth that modern people keep little on the healthy and balanced diet. However, it is no less than a stereotype. In fact, the healthy diet is more accessible to people nowadays for a spectrum of the following reasons. 
People today are willing to spend on healthy food because of the boast of the economy which enriches everyone\'\'s pocket. Dedicating to the development of the technology of every aspects, people earn more and spend more than centuries ago. Demands correspond to every aspects of our living is gradually emphasized inclusive of what to wear, where to live, and how to eat. In another word, an elaborate and healthy diet, to some extent, become a kind of trend in this quality-pursuing atmosphere. The restaurant famous for good for body attracts people to visit thrive in the recent year. These restaurants immersed in lots of orders and unable to find a sit during lunch and dinner time. Indicate 
Advance on the agriculture makes various crops which is vulnerable living on some location available to grow up. Farmers would possibly choose to cultivate healthy, organic, high-priced crops instead of abrasive, poor, cheap food. As multiple selections on diet become feasible, people resort to a healthier decision. Meanwhile, farmers derive the benefit from better incomes and consumers take advantage of a nutritious diet respectively form a win-win trade, or a positive cycle, leading to increasing people participating in.
Last but not the least, Considerations on a healthy diet is depended on the quick spread of essential food knowledge. In the past, food is just viewed as a necessity of living. People weak to distinguish between healthy food and poor food. The lack of the information of food resulting in little desire for the healthy food to intake. However, deep research on the nutrition and fast spread of the related information through the newspaper, broadcast, and network recommend certain food to appear on the dish in order to counterbalance the oil, fat and other objects worse our body. Gradually, people change the habit of intake. More healthy food is required due to the health issue. Actually, Healthy food becomes a lure to modern people.
Seen from the array of perspectives, what people eat today is in a healthier direction compared to the past. It is the advance of the economy, the agriculture, and the increasing working on food research make the status of healthy food sturdy today.
