Millions of possibilities drive me to explore the brand-new unfurled world of computer science. In the high school, a speaker was going to deliver an exciting speech, which motivated a student, revealing him the ambition he had never owned. "I am proud of dedicating myself to create the trend rather than blindly following people in the drift." offered by the speaker steadily. Growing from the ages when asserting computers had a chance to defeat the top of humans in a GO game is nonsense, humans have reached various accomplishments such as high success rates in speech, and image recognition. These improvements have thoroughly reform our daily life. Recognizing that the diverse abilities are undoubtedly a booster while involving in this revolution, I take courses spreading of great realms in computer science. Meanwhile, I research those domains separately or in tandem to explore my interest. The study in digital signal processing, data science, computer security, and artificial intelligence will be my advantage to itinerate between each region.
I have sought out some opportunities in digital speech processing in my undergraduate career. The class "Signal and System" I took in the freshman year introduced the essential mathematic and design used in general utilization. As my embryonic development, despite the callowness, such superficial understanding could not satisfy my curiosity and prompted me to travel around advanced knowledge. The course "Fundamentals of Speech Signal Processing" by professor LC Lee establish a steady first step for me to learn the operation and execution of current application: including QA machine, speech recognition, latent topic analysis. Not only did I learn the background knowledge but also built a simple system aimed at aiding the misspelling words in Taiwanese to be modified. Some words are difficult to articulate even for anchors since the connection utterance would appear when people speak fast, hence ignoring the original pronouncement of individual phonemes. This project is created to compensate for the detected unclear spelling errors. While the Viterbi algorithm is applied to find the best vocabulary to replace the ambiguous one, I can revise about 99% equivocal spells to a reasonable word that matches the context. Further, the project in the course "Digital Signal Processing" tutored by professor Chu-Song Chen introduced machine learning way to classify more than 20 sounds. Confined to the performance of the hardware devices, cannily calculate the model size and training time is indispensable. The prementioned classes support me with sufficient training to attend the laboratory of professor JS Jang and selected speech diarization as the topic of my research. In an attempt to pursue better results, numerous experiments had conducted. I worked with limited time and had to make proper allocate between other courses. Although not every trial resulted in a prospective answer, I recognized the importance of improving from the failure. How to re-design the alternatives after ameliorating the previous unsuccess, or try multiple potential solutions instead of insisting on one. Finally, the method of MCFF dimensions reduction and K-means clustering algorithm reaches more than 85% accuracy tested by more than thousands of phone records. I look forward to extending the former approaches or coordinating this experience and other research this semester.
I got an internship at Cyberon Corporation last summer, a Taiwan company dedicated to providing embedded speech solutions, text to speech(TTS) department. My responsibilities were to implement an end-to-end TTS model, like a voice google translation-like system. Since such a large project almost frustrated me initially, I tried to simplify this tough work by dividing it into smaller tasks and gradually crystallizing parts of them. I used more than three thousand Chinese sentences as the dataset to complete my job. The work included cutting the words into phonemes, predicting the frame number to establishing models for fitting proper spectrogram and frequency, and recovering the voice. I helped to construct the frame prediction model and the voice recovery model. The goal was to produce human-like voices that protended the need of capturing crucial features to distinguish trifling discrepancies between milliseconds. This project armed me with the ability to observe even the most insignificant components which may yield dramatic improvements to the results. The final presentation of this project turned out previous hard-to-achieved missions transformed into precious achievement.
I was thrilled at touching the diversity of computer science. Advanced Information Security Summer School (AIS3) gave me such an opportunity to keep abreast of the latest security issues, simultaneously, propose the experimental solutions toward these problems. Domestic Catch the flag (CTF) pre-exam was required to filter qualified attenders for AIS3 to ensure students are capable of a week of intense classes that were arranged to establish the elementary ability for the subsequent project. In the project, our team ameliorated the problem of visualization on the event log, which is a built-in program that records information of the programs in the operating system. Whenever the computer is infected, the event log can be used to trace the reasons, the time, and the path of the virus. This budding design won the prize of the best presentation in the forensics group. By extirpating the redundant record and emphasizing the abnormal document based on the data analysis, forensic investigators can predictably save time on browsing irrelevant data. This research highlighted another aspect of computer science: usability. Some forensic applications are accused of lacking user-friendly consideration. While they provide ways for investigators to access the solutions of the problems, however, it is hard to use and no analysts are willing to waste time finding a needle in the haystack. I learned how to design an application with both correctness and usability. Always imagining that I am one of the users of my application and adjust the interface to satisfy the users.
The paper: "Audio Adversarial Examples: Targeted Attacks on Speech-to-Text" proposed by Nicholas Carlini, and David Wagner is my first approach to audio adversarial attack, which is about the noise injection Whitebox attack toward a speech recognization system. Owning the cross-domain background of digital signal and security, I would like to expand this topic in my graduate year. I have read the paper: "Exposing Congestion Attack on Emerging Connected Vehicle based Traffic Signal Control" by UCI professor QA Chen. The analysis and attack toward the present developing technique are impressive. I believed that I can expand the research of audio adversaries in this environment. I also have broadened my knowledge as reading "A Practical and Provably Secure Coalition-Resistant Group Signature Scheme", a paper written by UCI processer G Tsudik. This paper discusses the signature scheme, cryptography-oriented security. This paper demonstrates the professor's abundant experience in computer security. I definitely can learn a lot under his instruction. Even my expertise cannot wonderfully overlap with the professor at UCI, the knowledge I learned previously can compensate for the deficiency in UCI by combining two regions. Meanwhile, I am not insisted on my research. The wide spectrum of computer science I reached proves my mobility and adaptability. I am always willing to confront new challenges and polish myself in other aspects.
That captivating speech that inspired me for a long time symbolizes the path I hope to pursue. I attended all-encompassing courses in NTU and interned for a season in Cyberon Corporation to close in the goal. I expect UCI to be my next station to approach it. Professors in various regions, the proximity to the big city are the affinities for my chooses. I will continue my research and endeavor to share this pleasure with UCI.
