Saying that spending lots of time on the sport channel results in negative effect is no seeing the whole picture. Although, to some extent, spending too much time watching sport is accused of wasting time, lacking sociality, and influencing the performance on working, such accusation may not be justified because spending time watching sports on television could be pros rather than cons.

Some people claim that spending too much time on sport can induce no benefits on our body due to the deficiency in physical movement. However, it is no less than a stereotype. Thousands of people embark on the sport practices because of watching the favorite players or teams on television. Moreover, watching sport is also beneficial to skills. Even the most outstanding athletes are encouraged to watching lots of records to adjust their action. For the person like you or me, spending times on sports channel causes benign effects.

It is also claimed that when addicting to watching the sports game on television, the time for socialization would decline. Indeed, in some extreme situation, the addiction to television can impede people from socialization. However, in most cases, the knowledge of sport can break the ice between people. People usually start getting familiar with others through a mutual topic, it is not a difficult task for those who spend hours a day watching sports on television or keeping abreast of their favorite team. By enthusiastically talking about sports or fighting for their favorite team, often, they can find mutual habits to keep their friendship easily than others.

When more people spend times watching sports on television or following the favorite team, it can also create visible profits on working. Nowadays, lots of enterprises are based on the sports events, spanning from the sports bars, the sports thesis restaurants to the advertisement business related to famous athletes. Hundreds of industries are combined through sports events. A worker may be influenced by the win and loss of their favorite team but it is too arbitrary to say that that can lead to negative effects on working. After all, abysmal profits created by sports broadcasted on television cannot be allowed to sink into oblivion.

Despite the potential disadvantages, the benefits from spending much time watching sports or television or supporting a favorite team outweigh the contrary for help in physical exercise, socialization, and profits on business.

