Many people today think that the limitation on the clothing at work or at school is an anachronistic concept which impedes people from performing personal characteristics and creation. For people at work and at school, however, such worries may not be justified because the practices of limitation on clothing could be a boon rather than a bane.

Confining people at work or at school to limited selections of types of clothing can accrue their concentration on their business because no one would sink into comparison. If the choice of clothing is free in schools or companies. People would be forced to spending time on daily clothes to prevent impressing others "bad taste on clothing". Potential pressure rather than work accumulates on people. Differently, When clothing becomes a rule, unnecessary consideration by students or workers can be eliminated, resulting in a greater focus on the work of themselves.

It is having rules about the types of clothing at school or at work that contributes to another benefit: reduction on expense. People tend to wear different cloth every day to avoid the strange sight of the fellows or co-workers. What's more, elegant clothes and polished shoes can with the spotlight of envy from others. Thus, it increases the budget on wearing to get the public acclaim on clothing even people don't need that much. If some rules about clothing are enacted, only a few types of regulated clothes are needed to purchase.

It must also be brought up that the rules on the clothing can be very creative. In campus, several classes make their own shirts to express their friendship and teamwork. Most of the sports team also own the suit with their symbol. School and Company, sometimes, publish clothing for the anniversary. All of the clothing can be types of allowable clothing at work or school. Not only can it performs the creation, but also expresses teamwork and unity.

Although the stereotype of deficiency in creation, enacting rules on clothing is more advantageous for concentrating on work and saving money. Furthermore, it emphasizes teamwork and unity at the same time.  
