When it comes to relaxing after a tedious daily routine, it is exercising physically rather than watching a movie or reading a book that better fulfills the purpose. The former outshines the latter in terms of its feasibility, convenience and low-cost.


In modern society, generally speaking, the major part of people tend to do the outdoor activity than the indoor one. Although relaxing with movies or books has its point, many students reject to stay in a study room and read a wordy novel after a tiring day surrounded by the textbooks while adults, confined to the airtight office and stick on a chair without sufficient space to move their legs, have little will to sit and move their eyes merely as relax. For the less educated or underage children, it is too hard for them to practice these methods because of the deficiency in literacy. Differently, practically every group is suitable for exercising. On the one hand, either children or the elder can refer to proper low-intensity exercise. On the other hand, the exercise system which is suited for the handicap is well-developing, even some international events related to it emergy.


Physical exercise suggests a better way to relax because of the greater convenience. The fun of seeing a movie is limited by the location, most people don\'\'t live in the close proximity to a movie theater. The time spent on traffic and scheduling is indispensable for a movie trip. The tiredness from the commuting and pre-planning considerably counterbalances the relax from the movie. Reading the book seems more reliable, however, it is time-consuming to find a right book that caters our interest. Conversely, Jogging has little or no requirement on the physical devices as well as the courts needed for basketball are widely established in the city leading to more access to physical exercise.


Physically exercising to alleviate the pressure should be better embraced rather than seeing a movie or reading a book for another reason: it costs less when executing. Since a movie ticket is costly for just several hours of fun, also, purchasing new books every period of time is money-consuming. By contrast, what we need for exercising is a ball, which can use consistently. What\'\'s more, some exercise such as jogging and gymnastics cost nothing to reduce financial expense on recreation.


Given its feasibility, facilitation and low financial threshold, physically exercising is regarded as a practice better than seeing a movie or reading a book to reduce the pressure on the tedious study and working.
