How to reduce the expenses on daily life has been an issue of the first magnitude so that numerous measures have been designed. Despite a spectrum of methods, Finding a roommate to share the fund outshines reducing the frequency of buying technology products and referring to cheap food for the following reasons.


Relying on an extra roommate to share the living space expenses stands out in terms of feasibility. Although decreasing the demand on technology products undoubtedly save money, we don\'\'t desire to change the technology products at a high frequency. Mobilephone and television may be indispensable for modern people. Nonetheless, the long life expectancy of these products suggests a relatively low purchasing frequency than other necessities such as food and grocery. Therefore, the effect is limited. While looking for cheaper food and cook at home to lower the expenses on food avails when it comes to preparing a diet for a large group of people because of the lower price in comparison of the restaurant, such diet doesn\'\'t equally benefit an individual tenant from saving money. It is the expenses of utilization on fire, oil, and water that burden a resident on cooking a meal for a person resulting in failing to reduce the payment on cooking at home. By comparison, a roommate to share the funds suggests more feasibility. On the one hand, the presence of contract greatly builds up the reliability of sharing living space expenses. On the other hand, rather than other cures, this solution suggests a constant way to reduce expenses and a stable way to reach the target.


Taking the sociality into consideration, finding a new roommate to share the outcome overrides alternatives. Either confining the budget on technology products or limiting money used on food derive little or no benefit on the interpersonal relationship. In spite of money, a roommate provides an extra advantage. After a tedious daily routine, we can share sweet and sour with each other rather than stay alone. When confronting a trouble related to living, we can discuss the solution rather than ponder on it on my own. Not only can a roommate alleviates the pressure of the living expenses but also can it gives a mentally support.
