Saying that an exaggerated advertisement for products creates more profits is not seeing the forest for the trees. In some extreme cases, a grandiose advertisement lures people by its immeasurable performance of the effect of products. However, in the most cases, a practical advertisement attract a larger group of people by its clear illustration of the effect of products.
Some people claim that advertising products with better effect is an attraction to the customers leading to an increasing number of exaggerated advertisements. Compared to the other products, people are inclined to have an affinity with better ones. This idea is counterproductive. While the shoppers discover the dishonest on the advertisements and consider the products don\'\'t reach the effect the advertisements suggest, they possibly refer to products with functions that the advertisements say. Taking the future tendency of customers into consideration, the benefits of a practical, honest advertisement outshine an exaggerated, lied ones. Thus, most advertisements still practically introduce the products.
It is also claimed, besides, that advertisements with products better than physical one dominate the TV because they highlight the advantage of the products, making customers easily catch the feature of the products. To some extent, it may result to backfire. Shoppers can be lured by few advertisements with exaggeration on effect but feel tired when voluminous them appear. By comparison, advertising in a realistic way never results negatively. Viewers keep an eye on the practical, real effect of the products rather than the rendering, unreal performance of the display. Therefore, the number of exaggerated advertisements still limited.
We misestimate the number of advertisements with overstating content because they are too impressive. Most of the advertisements receive good results without magnifying the function such as sport, travel, food, and entertainment. Neither do these items entail the exaggerated description nor do they be required to claim better than the reality. When directly expressing information on advertisements can gather customers to the products, it is meaningless to risk an exaggerated statement on advertising which can break the truth with shoppers.
Overstating the function is an impressive way but not a common way to advertise a product. It not only make the customers skeptical about the validity of the advertisement but also make the shoppers tired of the exaggeration. Meanwhile, most of the products are improper to use an overemphasized advertising but a real one.
