Saying that children should help with the housework at a young age is not seeing the forest for the trees. We generally consider that children learn useful household skills, simultaneously, parents reduce the pressure on domestic cleaning via distributing the household tasks to children. However, actually, this method doesn\'\'t benefit either children or parents for the following reasons.


Some people claim that early help with the housework make children be familiar with the skills on household tasks, meanwhile, be responsible for their own works. Things will not always follow the plan. Most of the children resist engaging in arduous housework which not only scarifies the time to get along with their partners but also exhausts themselves. Thus, perfunctory execution on work, as well as uninterested attitude toward household tasks, is predictably observed on a kid assisting with domestic chores. Children can learn little or no skills related to chores because of their reluctance to them.


It is also claimed, besides, that parents are able to earn extra free time and release the pressure on housework by delivering some household tasks to children as soon as they reach the lowest level of competence in domestic chores. However, it is no less than a stereotype. Since children don\'\'t have the ability to fulfill the housework to a high standard that parents expect. Parents still need to repeat the redundant housework which children have done before. As parents try effort to complement children\'\'s poor result of housework, more pressure is imposed on parents.


When parents focus on the benefit to make children involve in chores, they sometimes lack consideration on the working surroundings where it may be vulnerable to a kid at a young age. The news about children hurt in the kitchen, bathroom or even living room is never terminated. When kids concentrate on the process of housework, they are likely to absent keeping an eye on the subliminal damage in close proximity to themselves, leading to an irreversible accident.


In some cases, early assistance on household tasks for a young child still work. However, we need to take every possible condition into consideration. Besides the dangerous surroundings, children\'\'s lack of interest and incompetence on housework suggest that it is premature for a young child to engage in doing the housework.
