The responsibility to own money is one of the most important classes in our life. Improper utilization of money bankrupt a rich man in a short time and moderate control of wealth make a man, even he doesn\'\'t have a large income, live without the question of bankruptcy. However, is it worth to establish this kind of financial knowledge at such a young age? The following disadvantages are received as we decide to let a child build an arduous perspective on money.
It is not proper to impart the knowledge of the money to a child because of the lack of familiarity toward money. Most children are deficient in the ability to earn money. The payments on their daily life are usually supported by their parents. Thus, the knowledge of money is still weak at that age. Whatever concept if established it is only like a talk on paper - the effect is limited. It is a different story to a teenager. Teenagers possess a stronger background of money. The concepts of money management are now meaningful and feasible for them while a naive child can just imagine the execution of the process.
Young children are not suitable to learn about managing money because they may over-emphasize to it. The effect of money may be exaggerated while many of the things, like candies, toys, that they pursue is often affordable by a little amount of cash. Some children are attracted to the special function of money and become too greedy to share the wealth and its derivative, candies and toys, with others. children manage to keep their money in the piggy bank without sharing with others when they learn to manage money. As they grow up, more abundant social experience enable them to judge when to share and when to save. More rational method to use money can gradually develop with the assistance of the skills of managing money.
Making kids to have early learn on managing money risks the lack of money related information and the extreme dependence on wealth. Due to these disadvantages, premature construction on the concepts of financial management is still unreasonable to implement.
