Recently, there is an increasing judgment on students' lack of enthusiasm for the political issues in terms of the listless attitude. However, such criticism is no less than a stereotype. Students are more accessible, interested and motivational to politics than in the past for a spectrum of reasons.
Students are inclined to deliver their opinions on politics because of the development of democracy. Centuries ago, the power of the lord and the king dominate the whole country and the atmosphere of scare and horror for being punished by improper speech overwhelm the city. Students who have unique perspectives have little or no chances to perform peculiarity in fear of the imminent punishment. Protection of the right of humans raises leading to a growing amount of students to participate in discussing the political events. Enhance the willingness for students to attend the politics.
The widespread information via television and network enable people, including students, receive political decisions immediately. On the contrary, even a short message takes a long period to deliver. Students subjected to the impact of technology could reach the first-hand information of every domestic and aboard political issues. The large, accumulated reactions by students that are interested in some aspects of political related decisions, to some extent, influence the execution. Meanwhile, the network forum makes the discussion of politics more accessible making politics nowadays no longer a long distance from students. Just clicks of a mouse can students talk over the issues with the same interest.
Students today increase politics participation also because of the prevalent understanding of history. The consequence of the fault of wrong political decision is predictable with the assistance of historical events. For the purpose of avoiding a subliminal dilemma in the future, students volunteer to have a cardinal attendance in politics. Some students embark on the protestation or strike to protect their right while a threatening bill is passed. Moreover, other students catch the advancing initiative by pop political requirements or participate in the election.
With the democracy developing, the political information quickly spreading and responsibility in the future, increasing amount of students are interested in politics via various ways. Rather than hundreds of years ago, students affect the implementation of the political system in not only network discussion but also physical participation.
