George Allport was best known for his own brand of personality psychology known as “The Trait Theory”. The Trait Theory was a belief that personalities depended on individual differences and situation variables, meaning different situations and differences in humans’ shape who they become or their personality. He elaborated on this by developing his theory further and describing which traits were what. Cardinal Traits were what made up an individual’s entire personality and were not considered to be common. Central traits were also personality traits that focused on things such as sincerity, selfless-ness, and even the ability to make friends easily. Finally were secondary traits. Secondary traits only show themselves under duress or during key times of circumstances. Most find that secondary traits must be gently brought forward with certain techniques. An example of a secondary trait would be becoming impatient with a slow server or cashier. While traits are broken down into three categories Allport had originally skimmed a dictionary and from it he had picked nearly 4,000 traits that he felt accurately described the human personality. Allport believed that personality was a fluid thing that continuously evolved and changed over time.

But 4,000 traits simply were not enough. Allport had deduced that even though personality could be boiled down into three categories of traits and in those categories thousands of traits would fall into place. Because he so fervently believed in this theory he threw aside the Psychoanalytical approach commonly used in behavioral studies and adopted his own, called the Value of Scales. The Value of Scales is a belief in which the personality of a person is founded upon their values or things that hold real importance in their life or no importance at all. In the Values Scale, only six major values are outlined which are; Theoretical, Social, Aesthetic, Political, Economic, and Religious. The values scale were used in all areas, including with Psychotherapists and social scientists. The Value of Scales had its popularity in the early 70’s where it was used for a wide range of applications. Which included marriage counseling, and even educational advisement.

There was still even more research to be done into the mysterious depths that was personality. From Allports VOS and Trait Theory was born OCEAN (The five main dimensions of personality). OCEAN consisted of Openness to Experience, Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. Openness to Experience is usually reserved for people of high intellect. People who fall under the category OtE (Openness to Experience) are more likely to enjoy art, new scientific journals, and being able to talk about things act length. I feel a strong connection to this category as I also enjoy cognitive skills and consider myself intellectually inclined.