There are a number of drinks, in the beverage industry. They are divided into various branches. Talking about the fruit juice industry, they include natural juices and artificial juices or the man made ones. People have a number of tastes and they vary from person to person.

The fruit juice industry has a number of companies. They include Vadilal, Jumpin, Kissan, Real, Onjus, Kool Kokum, Frooti, Appy, Joly Jely, Yo Fruity, Noga, Midland, Goldcoin, Druk, Tropicana etc. as the market is growing and so is the demand from the public, therefore it compels the companies to bring out new and new products from time to time in order to cater to the demands and requirements of the public.

Parle Agro, which introduced the concept of mango fruit juice, named it as ‘Frooti’. In the beginning it was a huge success, with the company earning profits and at that point of time, the company did not even have much of the competitors. It positioned itself as a drink for kids.

But later on, as the market saw the entrance of new and new players and the market got saturated with the number of companies providing fruit juices with a number of variants. This made parle to reposition itself and change the perception of the public. It had to change itself from drinks for kids to a drink for adults. For that it came out with a number of marketing campaigns and other strategies in order to sustain itself in the market and protect frooti from getting into the declining stage of product life cycle.

A tremendous number of food items like: beverages, alcohol, bread & biscuits, frozen food, saffron, snacks, spices & seasonings etc. all are included under the category of Food & Beverages. The food and beverage industry consists of high level of market segment, huge variety of products, huge number of companies and many other characteristics. The food and beverage industry represents a diverse set of products and processes: fresh, frozen, chilled, and long shelf-life food and beverage products are manufactured, distributed, imported, and marketed to consumers, retailers, catering services, and other manufacturers. Food and beverage manufacturing facilities use large amounts of energy for cooking, cooling, freezing, and cold storage and transport. The manufacture & export of food & beverage has been constantly increasing since past few years. Food & beverage industry has become a big factor and has been constantly adding to the revenues of the countries.

While all beverages hydrate, few of them also provide various important nutrients that our body needs. Few of them relax us, few energize us and few just satisfy our natural taste for sweetness, maybe with or without calories. Some help us to perform our best, on the other hand, some can help us in managing our health. Any beverage can be part of a weight-maintenance diet. For many people who enjoy sweetened coffee drinks, soft drinks and other beverages with calories, this requires using good judgment when it comes to how much (portion size) and how often these beverages are consumed. Fortunately for those who watch their weight, there is also a wide variety of low-calorie thirst-quenching beverages, including waters, teas, coffee, and diet soft drinks.

India being the second largest market for fruits and vegetables in the world. The overall and the total production of fruits and vegetables is estimated to be around 148.5 million tones, out of which around 48.5 million tones is accounted by fruits only and the rest for vegetables which is around 100 million tones.

However, the fruit juice market has not been fully tapped because of poor infrastructure, poor storage facilities, and highly unorganized market, chiefly constituted by road side vendors. Consumers still prefer to buy juices from road side vendors even if the juices are unhygienic.

The major growth drivers in fruit juice market are, increase in health consciousness among consumers, increase in disposable incomes, and more sophisticated cocktail culture.