This research used the Extended Model of Goal Directed Behaviour to examine how social and personal factors affect the difference between the desire to smoke and smoking behavior of young adults during the stages of development of smoking behavior. This study explores the effect of the exogenous constructs positive and negative anticipated emotions, subjective norm, behavioral control on the endogenous construct behavioral desires. This study examines the predictions that these exogenous constructs have different effect on the endogenous construct for the different smoking stages. Based on a sample of 129 participants the analyses demonstrate that positive anticipated emotions only have effect on behavioral desires for regular smoking young adults and that negative anticipated emotions have no effect for any smoking stage. Subjective norm, however, has a larger effect for experimenters than for regular smoking young adults, whereas perceived behavioral control only has effect for the latter group. The findings and implications are discussed to increase the effectiveness of existing prevention programs for young adults to quit smoking.

Summary
The young adulthood period characterizes with a decrease in the oversight of parents and other adults. Young adults take more responsibility for actions that will affect their current and future health status, e.g. cigarette smoking. There are several theories and models that explain the smoking behavior of young adults. The Extended Model of Goal-Directed Behavior (EMGB) is one of these models which seeks to explain behaviors when the behavioral act in itself is not an end i.e. conduct of a given behavior is part of an overarching goal. The key construct introduced by the EMGB is behavioral desire. Behavioral desires represent the motivational state of mind wherein appraisals and reasons to act are transformed into a motivation to do so. This motivation or desire is hypothesized as the most proximal determinant of intentions in the EMGB. Behavioral desires therefore have an integrative function of exogenous constructs: goal desires, positive and negative anticipated emotions, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control and past behavior.

Researches in this thesis show that social and personal factors influence the smoking behavior of young adults. Every day young adults are affected by different persons who smoke, in particular those who are close to this age group. Moreover, each young adult has an unique combination of personal characteristics which largely determine who he or she is and how he or she behaves, e.g. personality traits such as emotions and behavioral control. However, these theoretical insights only partly explain or predict the likelihood of this influence. Smoking behavior is complex behavior that evolves through different stages. These five smoking stages have been summarized as never smoker, experimentation, intermittent, regular and ex-smoker. It is therefore difficult to indicate which of these factors are most important in which stage, since the influence of these factors depends on the degree to which a young adult has already started experimenting with cigarettes.

The proposed conceptual model of motivated behavior and predictions are deducted based on the stages and EMGB. Since the problem statement assessed in this thesis especially focuses on social and personal factors, it is more relevant to focus on anticipated emotions, subjective norm and perceived behavioral control in the EMGB to understand how these constructs affect the difference between goal desires and volitions in young adults’ experimentation and intermittent/regular smoking behavior.

Given the results of the correlations and path coefficients of each construct, my application of the EMGB provides insights about how social and personal factors affect the difference between the desire to smoke and smoking behavior of young adults during the stages of development of smoking behavior to increase the effectiveness of existing prevention campaigns.

Regular smoking young adults will have great desire to use a tool as an aid to quit smoking if thesis young adults perceive high levels of positive emotions associated with the anticipated success to quit smoking. Therefore, prevention programs should communicate to regular smoking young adults that smoking cessation is associated with positive anticipated emotions like excitement, delightful, happiness, satisfaction, proud and self-assurance.

However, prevention campaigns should not use negative anticipated emotions such as angriness, frustration, guilt, sadness, disappointment, depression, worrisome, discommode and fear in the communication to young adults to quit smoking, because young adults who perceive higher levels of negative emotions associated with the anticipated success to quit smoking will have no desire to use a tool as an aid to quit smoking.

Furthermore, experimenters and regular smoking young adults who perceive great normative pressures to use a tool as an aid to quit smoking will have the great desire to do so. Therefore, people (e.g. parents and peers) who are important to these adults should be encouraged to participate in prevention programs to address the smoking behavior of these young adults. These programs should make parents of these adults aware that they play an important role in their child’s smoking development and should give advice and information to parents on how they can prevent their children from smoking. Moreover, peers should also be included in prevention programs. These programs should teach experimenters and regular smoking young adults to resist peer pressure to smoke.

My findings also show that behavioral control does contribute to the behavior of regular smoking young adults. These adults have great desire to use a tool as an aid to quit smoking, if these young adults perceive a great level of control and fewer barriers. It is important that prevention programs help these young adults in stopping smoking by convincing them that they have the ability to quit smoking.

Furthermore, positive and negative anticipated emotions are positively correlated for all groups and the effect of subjective norms on behavioral desires might be affected by positive anticipated emotions. According to social scientists, young adults are born with certain personal characteristics but the social environment may mediate or moderate these characteristics to a certain extent. In order to determine that this statement is true, further deeper research is necessary.

The results should be interpreted with care due to the limitations of this research. The first limitation is the consideration of actual behaviors. The construct actual behaviors should also be implemented in the EMGB in future research. The second limitation is the small sample size due to the limited time for this research. The third limitation is the validity of the participants´ reports about the prevalence of cigarette smoking, because smokers are likely to underestimate the amount smoked or to deny smoking at all.

Contents

Introduction
A young adult is generally a person aging from 18 to 29. Young adults differ from adolescents or older adults through a typical phase of major changes. It is a generation that postpones the traditional family pattern. Instead, they live with friends, follow trends in clothing, carefully follow decorations or music, alternate between studies, jobs and sexual partners. Young adults learn to take initiative, obtain legal, emotional and financial independence, marry and get children (Arnett, 2000; Furstenberg et al., 2004). Any financial or other support services previously are decreased or terminated. As oversight of parents and other adults decreases, young adults take responsibility for actions that will affect their current and future health status, e.g. cigarette smoking.

Trends in cigarette smoking among adults have changed little over the past decade despite of public and school education campaigns showing the consequences of smoking. In 2011 34.3% of the young adults in the Netherlands, including 13.8% heavy smokers, smoked each on average 8.5 cigarettes per day (CBS, 2012). Cigarette smoking is addictive and harmful (e.g. De Vries, Engels, Kremers, Wetzels & Mudde, 2003) and is linked with an increased risk of heart diseases, stroke, lung and other types of cancer, and chronic lung diseases (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2004). Furthermore, smoking during pregnancy contributes to an increased risk of miscarriage, premature delivery, and having a low birth weight infant (Mathews, 2001).

There are several theories and models that explain the smoking behavior of young adults. Fishbein and Ajzen’s Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) and the Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA) reasoned that the fundamental factors attitude, subjective norm, perceived personal control and intent related to the behavior influence a young adult’s behavior (Montano & Kaspryzk, 2008). Theoretically, a young adult is most likely to take over a behavior if he or she perceives the behavior as normally accepted (i.e., family members, peers, and the media claim that the everyday activity may be normal), has a positive attitude toward the behavior and control over whether or not he or she takes part in the behavior and if it is his or her intention to take over this behavior in the future. Another model that is part of these general behavior models is the Extended Model of Goal-Directed Behavior (EMGB; Perugini & Conner, 2000). The EMGB is a decision making model which seeks to explain behaviors when the behavioral act in itself is not an end i.e. conduct of a given behavior is part of an overarching goal. The key construct in the EMGB is behavioral desire (Bagozzi, 1992; Gollwitzer, 1999), which is influenced by social and personal factors.

These social and personal factors play an important role in the explanation of smoking behavior of young adults (Pieterse & Willemsen, 2005). Every day young adults are affected by different persons who smoke. Famous people like movie stars who smoke on TV, at home where the parents smoke and by classmates or by groups of friends. The social environment plays an important role in the development of smoking behavior among young adults, in particular those who are close to this age group. Moreover, each young adult has an unique combination of personal characteristics which largely determine who he or she is and how he or she behaves (e.g., Robins, John, Caspi, Mofitt, & Stouthamer-Loeber, 1996). Personal factors are for example socio-demographics (gender, age, and income level), self-esteem, risky, rebellious and deviant behavior, emotions, have a tendency to take risks, be sensitive to the influence of peers, the personality traits and skills such as behavioral control.

However, smoking behavior of young adults is complex, because it evolves through different stages (Leventhal and Cleary, 1980). These smoking stages have been summarized as never smoker, experimentation, intermittent, regular and ex-smoker (Flay, 1993; Flay, Ockene, & Tager, 1992). Since the influence of social and personal factors depends on the degree to which young adults have already started experimenting with cigarettes, it is difficult to predict to what extent which of these factors affect the smoking behavior of young adults in each smoking stage (Pieterse & Willemsen, 2005).